Hello my loves, welcome to a guided sleep meditation by Lavendaire.
This meditation will help you relax your body and your mind, preparing you for a peaceful,
deep sleep. We will start in a seated posture, and then move onto a lying posture later on.
Please find a comfortable seated position on your bed. It might help to add a pillow
under you for support. ...
Rest your hands on your knees, with your palms facing up. Close your eyes.
Take a moment to feel your body, and feel the natural flow of your breath.
...
Regardless of what happened in your day, it is time to let it go. Release your day, release
all the worries, release all the stress. You don't need it anymore.
We'll take 5 deep breaths, with an open mouth exhale. When you inhale, think of peace. When
you exhale, let go of any tension that you may be holding onto, both in your body and
in your mind. With each exhale, find a deeper & deeper level of release.
Take a deep breath in through your nose, filling up the space in the bottom of your belly...
Then a deep exhale out through your mouth, releasing all the worries and tension from
your day.
Take another deep breath in through your nose, breathing in peace,
And a big exhale out through your mouth, exhaling all the stress...
Deep inhale through your nose, let the air reach deep into your belly...
And a deep exhale out through your mouth, letting go...
Another deep inhale through your nose,
Exhale and let it all out... feel your body soften & relax...
Final deep breathe in... inviting peace...
And exhale... drop your shoulders and release...
Become aware of how your body feels now. And how your breath grows slower and deeper as
you relax. ....
The mind and body are one. When our mind relaxes, our body relaxes, and vice versa. When we
feel stress or anxiety, our bodies hold onto these emotions as physical tension, and it
makes it harder for us to relax and sleep well.
Every night, make time to clear your mind and relax your body. This is your time to
love and nurture your mind, body, and soul.
Now, we will do some gentle stretches to further relax the body.
Let's start with some neck stretches.
Take a deep breath in… And on your exhale, bring your chin down to stretch the back of
your neck. If you want a deeper stretch, you can gently place your hands behind your head.
Hold here for two full breaths, breathing through the tension with each exhale.
On your next exhale bring your chin to neutral and face forward.
Onto side neck stretches. Gently tilt your head to the right, and hold for three deep
breaths. If you want a deeper stretch, you can gently place your right hand on your head…
Reset on your 3rd breath.
Now do the opposite side. Tilt your head slowly to the left, and hold for three deep breaths....
Reset on your next exhale…
Now let's do a couple neck circles on each side.. While inhaling, slowly roll your head
to the right, back, then exhale to the left, and then down… gently at your own pace,
do one more round…inhaling for the first half, exhaling for the 2nd half.....
Now switch directions. Slowly circle your neck the other way, inhaling to the left,
back, exhaling to the right, and down. Repeat for one more round…
When you’re done, take a deep breath and open mouth exhale to reset.
Next, do 5 shoulder rolls in each direction. Inhale and bring your shoulders forward and
up, then roll them back then down. Repeat this circular motion four more times, deep
breathing throughout....
Now roll your shoulders 5 times in the the opposite direction, deep breathing throughout
and loosening up your shoulder muscles. ....
Take a deep breath and reset. Notice how your body feels now.
Now that you've begun stretching, listen to your body. Where else would you like to stretch
and release tension? Follow your intuition and what your body craves....
Maybe you want to stretch your legs and reach for your toes. Maybe you want to lay down
and do some spinal twists. Whatever it may be, listen to your body and follow what your
body is telling you..... Remember to deep breathe through each stretch. ....
[ 2.5 min ]
Whenever you're ready, move into a lying position. We'll start with a slow breathing exercise
with 3 slow breaths.
Take a deep breath into your abdomen... hold it there for 3 seconds, and exhale slowly,
elongating your exhale as much as you can....
Take another deep breathe in through your nose, breathing into your abdomen.... hold
it there for 3 seconds... and exhale slowly.
One more breath like that, inhale into your abdomen, hold it for 3 seconds.. and then
slowly exhale until you have no more air left.
Take a healing breath in, and exhale it out... Feel your breath and heart rate slow down.
It is time to completely let go, and allow yourself to just be.
We will now relax the entire body, bringing awareness to one area at a time. With each
area, feel your body melt into the bed—into total relaxation.
Relax your forehead… Relax your eyebrows... Relax
your lips… Relax all your facial muscles...
Relax your scalp… Relax your brain…
Relax your shoulders…
Relax your arms... relax your hands… relax your fingertips.
Relax your heart…. Relax your stomach.
Relax your hips.. Relax your thighs...
Relax your calves…. Relax your feet.... Relax your toes.
Feel your entire body totally relax...
Take a slow deep breath in... and a slow deep breath out.... allowing your body to sink
into your bed, comfortably, peacefully.
You are safe. You are safe now.
....
Allow your mind to drift... into the space between the conscious and subconscious.
You are safe. You are safe now.
In this space of zero effort, there is nothing more for you to do, but to let go and allow
yourself to rest.
Rest. Beautiful, nourishing, loving - rest.
You deserve it.
Sending you so much love and light. Sweet dreams. & Namaste.