Good morning.
This is a brief session to help you  kickstart your day with a motivated,  
yet clear and focused mind as an  essential part of your morning routine.
Let's get started.
Find a meditation position  that works well for you.
For this session, avoid laying down and instead,  
try sitting on the floor or  on the front edge of a chair.
Keep your spine straight and  shoulders comfortably back.
Staying relaxed yet alert.
Feel free to roll your shoulders back a few times  or tilt your neck back and forth to loosen up.
And as you find your spot, take  comfortable breaths, naturally in and out.
Not forcing anything, but  bringing your attention to it.
Feeling the air moving in  and out of your nostrils.
And moving your chest up and down.
If you like, add in a deeper  breath every little while,  
just to cleanse and refresh your whole body.
Deeply in and out.
And now, as you are settling into  this place of presence and energy,  
we will focus on going into  the day with a clear mind.
As a part of your morning routine, it  is a great time to declutter your mind.
Through this process, you will  be mindful of your own self-care.
Keeping hold of feelings of love toward yourself.
This will ultimately exude love and care outward  to others that you encounter during your day.
And so, just listen to each following suggestion.
And as you do, on the next  breath you take in and out, just  
deeply focus on that suggestion, as we begin now.
I see the clutter in my mind.
I let the thoughts float away.
Making clear and open space.
Beautiful, cleansed, and free.
Letting go of what thoughts remain.
Falling away like a waterfall.
Then calm, still, and clear.
A focused mind, a free mind.
Fantastic job.
We will perform this brief exercise once more.
And this time, feel it twice  as deeply. Twice as clearly.
Knowing that you only have a  bit of clutter yet to clear.
We'll start again now. And remember, just  a breath in and out to bring focus to it.
I see the remaining clutter in my mind.
I let the thoughts float away.
Making clear and open space.
Beautiful, cleansed, and free.
Letting go completely.
Falling away like a waterfall.
Then calm, still, clear.
A focused mind, a free mind.
Okay.
Remember these key phrases throughout your day.
And when an intrusive and non-helpful thought  tries to force its way into your thought patterns,  
you can be reminded of your reassuring breath.
Just as you have a clear mind now,  you can let that thought drop away.
At any point in your day, you can return  to a calm, clear, focused, and free mind.
Welcome to your day. Embrace  it. Enjoy it. Love it.
There won't be another day like today.