In this meditation session, we will take some time  to remind ourselves of what we are capable of...
To build ourselves up.
We have strength. We have drive. We  have motivation to do our absolute best.
Allow this time to be set aside as  your own. A welcome reprieve from  
the many thoughts and decisions running  through your mind throughout each day.
It is good to remember that we are  often more than the roadblocks that  
sometimes come up in our minds. And we  can break through them. You got this.
To get us settled into focusing on our breath,  I encourage you to continue taking comfortable  
and natural breaths. Let it  flow comfortably and naturally  
again focusing on your breath in and out.  
I invite you to take this opportunity  to calm your mind and relax your body.
Just repeat these short  affirmation phrases in your head.
With this next breath cycle...
I relax my eyes.
With this next breath cycle...
I relax my shoulders.
With this next breath cycle...
I relax my arms.
With this next breath cycle...
I relax my legs.
And with this next breath cycle...
I relax my entire body.
As you remain here in this comfortable space,  
continue that awareness of your breath,  your body, the space that you are in.
You can focus your gaze gently on a space  across the room... or allow your eyes to close.  
Just remaining alert yet  content throughout this time.
Feeling that breath flow through your nostrils...  muscles relaxed... present and at peace.
We all face challenges day in and day out.  
And you are ambitions. Driven. You  have high expectations for yourself.  
And sometimes, maybe even subconsciously  in your mind... you may doubt yourself.
Something may seem too  challenging... too difficult.  
You come across a roadblock and feel  as though you just can't get past it.
This is when we remind ourselves of the simple  phrase that brings us back to the present moment.  
That helps us to remember  what we are truly capable of.
I. Got. This.
I. GOT THIS.
And the challenge that we face  
is how we take on these ambitious tasks and  goals that we have laid out in front of us.  
And yet, be at peace moment to moment and  see a clear path laid out for ourselves.
We will now do an affirmation  exercise to reshape our thought cycle  
and begin to more clearly define the path forward.
So, in this exercise, repeat after  me, either out loud or in your head.  
And we will use visualization techniques to shape  our thoughts... to take us to another place.  
We begin now:
A clear blue lake.
A warm sun overhead.
Birds in the sky.
A sandy beach.
I take a step..
Enjoying the process.
One foot in front of the next.
All in a row.
No worry.
No fear.
Just each. next. step.
Just each... next... step.
Great. Isn't it wonderful how we  can reshape our patterns of thought?  
We can so easily get lost in the stresses and  anxiety. And yet, we realize that we can so  
quickly bring it back. We can learn to think in  steps just like on the sandy and sunny beach.
Placing one foot in front of the  other and enjoying each step.
And if we sometimes forget...  
we remember that there is always a next step,  and it can be a peaceful, enjoyable step.
We can learn to love and enjoy the process and  remind ourselves of this whenever we become lost.
And so, for one last very short affirmation  cycle... in a moment you will repeat after me  
and remember that you are brilliant.  You are kind. You are capable.
And anytime you need to remind yourself of this,  
just return back to the beach. The  waves. The warm sun. And take a step.
So now...
Just repeat these short phrases:
I am strong.
I am enough.
I can do this.
I... got this.