This is a loving-kindness meditation.
It will focus on compassion.
This means compassion toward those around us...
and reflecting the same compassion for ourselves.
And it even means directing  love and compassion outward.
To the earth... to the sky...  to the sun and universe.
It will help us to appreciate and understand  the weight of each day of life that we receive.
A free and harmonious life.
It will help with the ability to embrace  and understand what is within our control...
And to let go of that which is not.
As always, find a favorite comfortable position.
Begin to recognize your body. Any areas of  tension, letting your muscles begin to relax.
And as you do, bring that  attention to your breath.
Just notice it. Gently and naturally. In and out.
You can use the air moving in and out  of your nostrils as a point of focus.
You can also notice that gentle movement of your  chest as the air flows in and out of your lungs.
If it is helpful, you can say to yourself  the words "in and out" on each breath.
Even just in your head.
Again, just as naturally as you always  breathe, but bringing your attention to it.
And with each breath, letting all  your muscles relax just a bit more.
And then, a bit more again.
Breath by breath.
And as you are here in this comforting place,
If distracting thoughts try to  creep their way into your mind,
It is fine.
You can always recognize them  and just let them drift away.
Just bringing your attention  back to breath and body.
And, to my suggestions. Again and again.
Recognizing a small victory each time you  notice a stray thought, and gently send it away.
And so now, as you just gently  continue that breath and body focus...
I will share with you some excerpts from  Buddhist discourse on loving-kindness.
While I do so, you can just continue to relax,  focus your thoughts, and take these words in.
Feeling them deeply as you  remember your breath and body.
"May all beings be happy and secure"
"May they be happy-minded"
"May we not wish anger, no  ill-will or suffering of others"
"May all beings, without  exception, be happy-minded"
"Just as a parent would protect a child,  cultivate a boundless heart toward all beings"
"Keep a strong mind, free  of enmity and negativity"
"Let the thoughts of boundless loving-kindness,  in one true direction, pervade the whole world."
As we settle into these thoughts, we understand  the universal nature of their themes.
We see life and the world as it could be,  
and we recognize that we are just  one grain of that greater whole.
And yet, have the ability to move mountains  with the strength of our outward love.
Our resolve toward the betterment of humanity.
And so now, we will move into affirmations  to bolster these themes of loving-kindness.
And so if you like, just repeat each  short affirmation phrase after me  
in whatever way you see fit.
Either out loud, or in your head.
And I will leave just a  moment to process each one.
Just a reminder to continue to focus on  your gentle and natural breath, in and out.
And body... loose and relaxed muscles.
Here in your comfortable space.
We begin now.
May my life be filled with happiness.
May I be well in body and mind.
May I give openly and freely.
May I be filled with grace and compassion.
Awesome. And now in this perfect  place that we have built,
We will now send these  affirmations outward to all beings,
And even to the earth, sky, and universe.
Embrace and become one with  all that is good around you
And feel that healing freedom that it brings.
Feeling grateful and remembering  our breath and our body.
We say once more:
May all our lives be filled with happiness.
May we all be well in body and mind.
May we all give openly and freely.
May our minds stay at ease  through times of challenge.
May all the world be filled  with grace and compassion.
Great. Go forth with confidence and pride.
As a compassionate person, you can know that  your kindness will be put forth into the world,
and passed along through everyone you encounter.
Lao Tsu said: "Kindness in  words creates confidence."
"Kindness in thinking creates profoundness."
"Kindness in giving creates love."
Let us lastly reinforce these ideas  
of loving-kindness by once again remembering  the lines from the Buddhist texts:
May all beings be happy and secure.
Cultivating a boundless heart toward all beings.
A strong mind, free of negativity.
Let thoughts of loving-kindness  pervade the whole world.
So now the music will continue for just a bit
and we will finish this session  and just count from 5 to 1.
Starting now.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.