This is a guided mindfulness meditation on being a better you.
Taking these few minutes of focus and presence,
will help you to embrace positivity and self-love.
Through this process, your thoughtfulness toward others will deepen.
You will be more consistently aware of your actions
and your strength and comfort within yourself
will become strength and comfort toward others.
bring your attention to your breathing, and just take Natural,
comfortable breaths.
Also sit comfortably and allow your body to find a relaxed
state.
Remember to be aware
embracing this present moment
embracing this time we have right here and right now.
Continuing to gently Breathe in and out...
comfortably and naturally
using the movement of your chest
or the air movement through your nostrils
to be an anchor of focus
in and out
Just keep that attention on your breathing and my voice.
your breath
and my voice
iImagine yourself walking through a beautiful outdoor space.
It may be a forest or large garden.
Maybe it is a gorgeous sandy beach.
Choose your dreamlike destination and take yourself there,
imagining yourself walking slowly one foot in front of another,
gently breathing in and out.
Feeling the perfect warmth of this place as you walk forward in your mind's eye.
Imagine a pathway appearing in front of you.
This path is your journey toward your better self.
Imagine that the path is a bit hazy.
maybe a bit crooked or rocky...
Imagine a path like this as your journey through life...
Walking forward, remind yourself that you have the strength and resolve
to overcome whatever challenges or obstacles may be on this path.
You can be mindful to work through these challenging
situations
and your better self will shine through those most difficult and Rocky times
and now
as you continue to walk,
Imagine that path becoming clearer and more defined
Maybe it's slowly straightens or flattens out
You see the path stretch further into the distance
it may begin to hlow brightly
inviting you to continue forward
clear and free.
Your days and weeks to come
will become more like the straight path.
You may begin to see possibilities and opportunities
that you may have missed before.
Your powerful mindset
will help you to remain present and focused
on living a good and full life.
And so...
as you continue slowly down this path,
move with excitement and anticipation toward your goals
Shortly, I will finish the spoken portion of this meditation
except for letting you know when the ambient music will end.
I will let the calming music continue for several minutes now
and if you wish,
you can continue to imagine yourself walking down that
bright and perfect path.
The path toward your future
Yet.
you always keep your mind right here grounded in the present
Positive, uplifted,
and growing in self-love.
You truly can become a better you.
The ambient music break begins...
now
We are now coming to the end of the ambient music.
Feel free to open your eyes if you had them closed
and this session will finish
in just a moment.







