This is a guided mindfulness meditation
on making a fresh start.
There are times in all of our lives
when we could use a reset button.
...A way to help ourselves  move beyond mental barriers
and move forward with a renewed perspective.
Starting fresh can allow us to approach challenges
with confidence and fearlessness.
It allows us to see with  clarity, purpose, and positivity.
Take a moment to sit comfortably
either cross-legged on the ground,
or maybe upright in a chair.
And wherever you are at, keep  your shoulders gently pulled back
and your spine straight.
Let your gaze soften or allow your eyes to close.
Take a few deep breaths in... and out.
Allow yourself to fully relax
and let go of any tension in your body.
As you breathe gently,
feel the relaxation flow from your head...
downward through your body....
and all the way to your toes.
Just remain alert, focused, yet very relaxed.
And continuing to breathe  naturally and comfortably,
on your next breath, as you exhale,
imagine that you are releasing  any negative feelings or thoughts
that are weighing you down.
This is a time to let go of the past
and become fully present.
Embracing what is right here... right now.
Remembering that we are always here in the now.
In this present moment.
So, as you continue that  comfortable and natural breathing,
and remain focused in this presence,
Imagine yourself filling up with a  sense of possibility and potential.
With each exhale, let go of any doubts  or worries that may be holding you back.
Think about what a fresh start means to you.
Maybe it's a chance to set new goals...
To try something new....
to challenge yourself...
to let go of the past
or to start fresh in a new environment.
Whatever it is, allow yourself  to fully embrace this opportunity
to find ways to start fresh.
Imagine that you are standing  at the edge of a new beginning.
The past is behind you and the  future is open and full of potential.
What do you want to achieve or accomplish?
How do you want to feel as you  embark on this new journey?
For  
the next 30 seconds or so,  
take a moment to visualize what  this fresh start looks like for you.
and if you can't see it clearly yet,  simply enjoy being here in the present
and maintaining that clarity and focus.
Starting that little bit of time.... now.
Fantastic.
Allow yourself to feel that sense  of excitement and possibility.
Know that you have the power  to create the life you want...
and that a fresh start is always possible.
Remember that no matter what  challenges may come your way,
You have the strength and  resilience to overcome them.
Trust in yourself and your ability  to create the life you desire.
Breathe easy, allowing yourself to let  go of any remaining doubts or fears.
Remember that YOU are in control of your journey.
Feeling grounded and energized  for this fresh start.
Thank you for joining me today.
I will now leave you with several  minutes of ambient background music
to finish up for today.