This is a guided mindfulness meditation  on calming the voice inside your head.
As we begin, relax into a comfortable position
but keep your mind and body alert,
focused on my voice,
and ready to hear these words and suggestions.
Enjoy this time,
and begin by focusing your energy on your  natural and gentle breaths in and out.
Breathe effortlessly
and recognize your body in this space.
Feeling your limbs resting gently.
You feel life flow through you.
Welcome yourself into this  time of presence and peace,
ready to allow yourself these moments.
Feeling the tension in your muscles  melting away with each breath outward.
Continuing that gentle breath,
we will take a journey of self-understanding.
And we'll begin with a short countdown,
starting from five,
four,
three,
two,
one.
Each of us has a voice that we carry with us.
The one that creates a narrative in our mind.
We might feel as though we are in full  control of these thoughts in our head,
yet, if we reflect on the times  when we become lost in thought,
allowing our mind to follow  all of its various pathways,
we might realize
that many of these thoughts  happen outside of our control
and you may notice that you have  these thoughts each and every day.
Every hour or even every minute.
It might feel exhausting to have this  continual narrative happening in your mind,
particularly if it brings you  anxious or worrisome thoughts.
In this meditation and mindfulness session,
we can send you down the road of separating  the anxiety-inducing and harmful thoughts
and allow you to catch them before they take hold.
It helps us to become the  constant watcher of our thoughts.
In control and comfortably aware.
Continuing now to focus on  that natural and gentle breath,
body feeling oh so comfortable and calm,
feeling these ideas deeply
and on the next breath
allow yourself to feel the presence  of your body twice as deeply.
You may feel some tingles in your arms or legs.
Enjoy being here and now,
present and aware.
Take a few moments to continue to center yourself
and deepen your understanding of this  relationship with your thoughts.  
And in this moment,
I invite you to share five short phrases.
You can repeat them after me
either out loud or in your head.
And as you do so,
just continue to enjoy this time.
Starting now.
Five:
"Here in this moment."
Four:
"The watcher of my thoughts."
Three:
"Present and peaceful."
Two:
"Awareness in every breath."
One:
"Learning to know myself deeply."
Great...
Now, we will do a different count.
And this time remembering the  kinds of unconscious thoughts
we want to make ourselves aware of.
And so continuing that comfortable breath,
that present body,
we start again.
Five:
"Aware of anxious thoughts."
Four:
"Aware of fearful thoughts."
Three:
"Aware of thoughts of painful memories."
Two:
"Aware of thoughts about the future."
One:
"Aware of myself here and now."
And just once more.
"Aware of myself here and now."
You can use these phrases at  any time throughout the day
when you find those unconscious  thoughts creeping in.
You will begin to notice them more
and will mentally praise yourself  when you let those thoughts melt away.
Freeing yourself from the burden  of constant anxiety or fear.
Lifting the weight that you have  carried in your mind for so long.
So freeing
like balloons floating up into the air.
Allow yourself to let go
and become aware in a way that you never imagined
or even considered before.
And so,
as you're enjoying this time,
we'll revisit our first countdown once more,
feeling each word with weight and importance
and knowing that you have a  healthier mindset ready for you
that you can carry forward  into each moment of every day.
And we'll start once more, now.
Five:
"Here in this moment."
Four:
"The watcher of my thoughts."
Three:
"Present and peaceful."
Two:
"Awareness in every breath."
And one:
"I will know myself deeply."
Great job.
If you like, take a few moments in  this place of peace and presence,
then the session will conclude.
Remembering that awareness in each moment,
calming that voice in your head day by day,
hour by hour,
moment by moment.
Freeing yourself of that burden. A weight you no longer need to carry.
You have a beautiful future that awaits.
My speaking portion concludes now.