- [John] Hi, I'm John and I'm so glad you're joining me
for this meditation to help you start your day.
(gentle relaxed music)
Our subconscious mind is most active
and, some say, most impressionable right after we wake up.
This gives us a tremendous opportunity
to impact how the rest of our day plays out.
We can set a positively focused intention
that's in alignment with and supports the type of day
we'd like to have.
So to get started,
get into a position you can comfortably hold for a bit.
If you are doing this meditation shortly after waking up
be sure you're not in a position
you'd otherwise fall back to sleep in.
Gently close your eyes.
Begin to take deep, refreshing breaths.
Allowing each breath to ease you
into a still, focused state.
Turning all of your attention inward.
Making yourself your first priority in this moment.
Your only focus is your wellbeing.
As you continue to breathe this way,
notice the journey of your breath through your body,
how it feels as it weaves in and out
of your cells, muscles and joints.
Feeling the groundedness and connectedness in these areas.
(soft relaxing music)
Allowing the breath to ease and release any tightness
or tension you may be feeling.
Be aware of any judgments that might come up
as you do this.
It's natural for this to happen,
so instead of judging the judgment,
simply acknowledge that it's there
and then let it drift away.
Replacing it with loving thoughts
for how your body will support you through this day too.
(gentle relaxed music continues)
Now that we've grounded physically,
let's focus on our internal intention for the day.
Most of the time when we think of intention,
we think about the thing we want to get or experience.
But what's fascinating is that most often
we don't actually want the thing,
we want the way to think makes us feel.
So begin to focus now on how you'd like to feel today.
It can be tempting in this process
to focus on what you don't want.
So if you notice yourself doing that, it's okay.
Simply let that pass and then refocus on what you do want.
Perhaps you want a day
filled with ease, peace, joy, and flow.
Tap into the feelings you want to experience today.
And as you do, allow yourself time with each one,
sitting in that feeling,
allow it to fill up your entire body and heart.
(gentle relaxed music continues)#
(calm music)
Now, how do you want to feel when the day is done?
Perhaps you want to feel accomplished,
productive, energized, or satisfied.
Again, focus on what you do want.
And as you do, allow yourself time with each one,
sitting in each feeling,
allowing it to fill your entire body and heart.
Now open yourself up to allowing this intention
to settle into your unconscious
so that your thoughts and actions
for the rest of the day today can be in alignment.
(relaxed music)
Continue breathing with your eyes closed.
Just let your attention start to focus back on my voice.
Allow yourself to be guided by this intention today.
Allow it to show you new possibilities
you may not have seen before and guide your actions.
Allow it to inspire the journey of your day
with curiosity and maybe even a bit of playfulness.
Now let's take three more deep breaths together.
Take a deep inhale in,
holding it for a beat
and exhale it out.
Again, an even deeper breath than the one before.
Feeling it weave in and out of your muscles and cells.
And exhale it out.
Last time, your deepest breath yet.
Sending that oxygen through your entire body
and solidifying once again, your intention for the day.
And when that breath reaches the top of your head
and you're ready, you can open your eyes.
Thanks so much for joining me for this meditation.
I'm excited for the day you're about to have.