This is a guided mindfulness meditation about caring for yourself and going easy on yourself.
The focus of this session is to bring attention to the amount of pressure that we often put
on ourselves.
We will come to realize that although it can be healthy to hold ourselves to a high standard,
we can raise awareness that unnecessarily beating ourselves up can deteriorate our mental
state.
Allow yourself to sit comfortably, yet alert.
Take this time to bring an awareness to your body and to your breathing.
Just take calming and gentle breaths, in and out.
And begin to enjoy being in the present moment.
You can let go of any ruminations about the past and any worries about the future.
Continuing to breathe gently and naturally, feel that air movement in and out of your
nostrils.
And that gentle movement of your chest, as you relax all throughout your body.
Especially relaxing your neck and shoulders.
Letting the tension out of your arms and legs.
Just letting your body sink into the surface that you are in.
As you find this place of peace and comfort, I am going to pose several questions.
That will give you about 30 seconds to think about that question and see what answers come
to your mind.
These are questions and suggestions that you can ask yourself throughout each day.
The first is:
"Is there something in particular that you are currently challenging yourself with, that
may be causing your anxiety or stress?"
"What thoughts or emotions arise when you become stressed about challenging situations?
Are there any mental cycles that you hope to break?"
And as the third question,
"Are there any certain symptoms that you notice when you think about having stress and anxiety?
Do you catch certain thoughts that cause that anxiety and stress?"
Great.
And again, take these thoughts with you and take the time to occasionally as yourself
them during each day.
This will help you recognize the source of anxiety and stress and will help you to better
manage it as you face those challenges throughout each day.
Now, we will take the time to repeat some short mantras.
With each short phrase, feel free to repeat it either out loud or just in your head.
As a reminder, continuing to sit comfortably, stay grounded in the present moment, just
focused on your breath and my voice.
Breath and voice.
As your body stays loose and comfortable.
And we will begin these mantras now.
"I am a strong person."
"I am thoughtful and kind."
"I deserve to love myself."
"I deserve to forgive myself."
"I deserve joy."
"I deserve peace."
"I deserve a still and contented mind."
Let these ideas sink in deeply, and enjoy them.
We will go through them just once more.
And again, feel them deeply.
Feel them even more profoundly.
Let these mantras be at the forefront of your mind as you go into the coming days.
I will begin a modified version of these mantras now.
"Remembering my strength."
"Remembering my thoughtfulness and kindness."
"Remembering to love myself."
"Remembering to forgive myself."
"Remembering to feel joy."
"Remembering to feel at peace."
"Remembering to keep a still and contented mind."
Awesome.
Take this with you today and throughout the weeks to come.
There will be just a few more minutes of ambient music, so allow yourself to either end this
meditation now, or gently feel yourself come back and be ready for the next step in your
day or night.
Thank you for spending this time with me.
That will end the spoken portion of this meditation, now.