This is a brief guided mindfulness  meditation on recognizing your emotions.
Breathe naturally and comfortably.  
Welcoming a relaxation of your eyes,  neck, and shoulders, arms, hands, legs.
Begin to get a sense of the state of your  mind and body in the space that you are in.
Allow yourself to settle into  a comforting state of presence.
Enjoy a new sense of awareness in these moments.
And as you bring your focus to my voice, and  to your place here in the present moment,  
we focus and reflect on our emotions.
What may seem simple on the surface,  
such as a feeling of "happy" or  "sad", is so often much more complex.
Feelings can arise seemingly out of our control,  
and come from places that we  may not immediately understand.
Continue just to relax, breathe  comfortably, have awareness in the present.
Negative emotions can sneak up on us,  
causing us not to recognize them until  they have already deeply affected us.
Feelings of contentment sometimes pass  us by without us even realizing it.
What is important is to recognize when both  positive or negative emotions arise within us.
Once we have that recognition, we  can choose to act on those feelings,  
but we don't necessarily need to. Simply being  aware is a form of process; of self-improvement.
It is not wrong or bad to feel negative emotions.  These can happen naturally and could be an  
important part of working through difficulty  or grieving. But it is important to recognize  
where these negative emotions come from  and when they start to overtake us.
Anger, fear, guilt, whatever difficult feeling  arises, we must continuously listen to our minds.
Sometimes it may feel like a  constant storm brewing within us.  
Watching and understanding can be  our key to feeling more in control,  
more present, more at peace.
And so, following this spoken  portion of the meditation,  
feel free to take a few minutes to  silently meditate on your emotions.
Remembering to keep a  watchful eye on your emotions.
Work to understand them and how  they are affecting each of us.
Decide if the emotion necessitates action.
Relax and stay in the presence of your emotions.
And if the feeling is right, just  let it go. Let it go. Let it go.
Recognizing our emotions.