0 begin by getting in a comfortable seated position spine tall and straight sit bones balanced shoulders rolled away from the ears opening up that beautiful heart of yours letting your palms rest open in your lap and lovingly close your eyes tune into your breath and your body becoming present noticing how it feels as you breathe in and out letting your belly and rib cage expand on every in-breath and contract on every out breath as you tune into the weight of gravity letting the muscles in your face relax letting any muscles you do not need right now become loose with the weight of gravity  then you tune in to you you say to yourself i am here with me now i choose to be my best friend and to offer myself the gift that a growth mindset brings  feel this commitment to yourself in your heart for truly a growth mindset is a commitment it's not a one-time thing  tune into your heart in the middle of your chest and a couple of inches inwards  this is the energy center of your heart and in here lies an eager happy openness to committing to a growth mindset  do you feel that happiness your heart is happy that you are open to committing to a growth mindset for it doesn't just affect your mindset mentally it affects your entire way of being it affects your emotions your physical body and of course your mental wellness as you tune into your heart you become clear why do you desire a growth mindset why do you feel it will serve you who do you wish to become  as you tune in to your desire in your heart to become the best version of you you take a nice deep breath in stomach and ribcage fully expanding holding your breath at the top letting this desire to be the best version of you build and when you're ready exhale with a sigh  you tune in to that desire to grow to be open to feedback to be committed to you and you let that desire flow as you breathe in and out and listen to these words as they spark more desire within you  and start to even turn from desire into action for you feel open and knowing that the more you listen to the following messages the more you will start to shift into a growth mindset keep breathing and listen to these words and let them move you  you are responsible for your thoughts yes the world around you has influenced you in some way but it ultimately is up to you to decide what is true to you you create your reality with the beliefs you have and the beliefs you have are just thoughts you've been thinking over and over  you have the power to think new thoughts every time a thought occurs that you wonder does this serve me if the answer is no you can choose a new thought much like attending to a garden that perhaps has been long overlooked for years and years and there are many weeds and tangled roots it takes time to pull out what's no longer needed in that garden the weeds may keep growing back time and time again but the more you tend to the garden the more you plant the seeds you wish to see in the garden the more your garden becomes that which you desire it to be it takes daily work and daily cultivation the same is true with your mind and when you become the gardener of your mind you become a master at growth mindset because you know you can change the landscape of your mind masterfully you can curate it to be whatever you wish it to be you become open to feedback from others you become non-resistant because you know that everything you see witness here you are the one who ultimately decides whether or not you keep it  whether or not it is part of the garden you wish to  cultivate in the past perhaps you have allowed yourself to feel triggered by someone's words or actions and perhaps you thought that was a bad thing now as the gardener of the landscape in your mind you recognize that any time you feel triggered it's quite similar to stumbling upon a patch of bittersweet in the garden this is an invasive species that can choke out the other plants instead of viewing it as a bad thing you now with your growth mindset simply view it as something to take care of when you focus on what you would rather see and stand you allow yourself to remove that which doesn't serve and you only view that which doesn't serve as guidance versus a bad thing you are the gardener of the landscape of your mind continually shaping molding and cultivating beliefs and views that serve you it is a daily commitment feel in your heart how committed you are as you affirm to yourself i cultivate the landscape of my mind i choose a growth mindset every time i am faced with anything i view as an obstacle or bad i choose to curate thoughts and beliefs that serve me  i'm open to growth and commitment to growth now take a nice big deep breath in stomach and rib cage fully expanding holding your breath at the top and when you're ready exhale with a sigh  take this feeling and commitment with you as you begin to roll your shoulders wiggle your fingers and toes and when you're ready slowly open your eyes back to the world around you  now go out there as the gardener of your inner landscape of your mind and enjoy cultivating the thoughts and beliefs you wish to see you
0 Learn New Skills | Guided Meditation To Learn Faster A New Skill Learning something new represents a challenge as we know we will be forced to leave our comfort zone. Sometimes we pass on learning something new because we fear we couldn't “get it right”; it’s just too hard or will take too much time. However, there are times when learning something new is easy and exciting in the beginning, but as we dive deeper into the skill, frustrations may emerge. The frustration barrier doesn’t just make learning more difficult; it is also demotivating. When you face the barrier repeatedly, you may start to believe that you are not born with the talents necessary to succeed in the particular skill you are trying to learn. Whether it be learning how to code, drawing, play a new sport or business, there’s no skill that you can’t acquire. In this meditation, we will grow your mental capacity to learn faster, memorize more, and keep yourself motivated. It is recommended to do this meditation every time before practice your new desired skill to maximize your learning potential. Let's begin Find a quiet place where you can lay down or sit in a comfortable position without being disturbed. Allow your eyelids to close over your eyes softly. Slowly take a deep breath in...hold for a moment and slowly let the breath all the way out. Take a few more deep breaths. Gently all the way in - pause and slowly, all the way out. On every exhale, your body relaxes more and more. As you focus on my voice, your mind calms down and opens to the positive suggestions of becoming very good at a desired new skill. Now, I would like you to call to mind a skill you already have and are good at. It can be driving a car or a bicycle. Maybe, cooking, work, or business-related. Anything that comes to your mind. In your mind's eye, visualize yourself practicing this skill. Take a few moments to enjoy it. How does it feel doing something that you are good at? Remember the time when you learned that skill. When was it? How did you learn it? Was it easy or hard? Take notes on how you feel knowing that you pass a long way to learn that skill, and you are here, now enjoying it. Proud of it. Now, I would like you to call to mind the skill you want to develop. It could be one that you find particularly challenging. It could be a skill that you have been trying to acquire for some time. Take a moment and visualize yourself practicing this skill. Zoom-in on the details. What do you feel? If you sense any frustration or anxiety emerging, take a deep inhale, and as you exhale, let it go. Now, I would like you to find a connection between your desired skill and the one you already acquire. The connection does not have to be a direct one. Take a moment to find a connection, small or big. As your mind bridges the gap between the two skills, visualize yourself practicing the new desired skill with the same confidence and pleasure you practice the skill you already possess. See yourself improving and getting better and better. It’s becoming too easy. This skill cannot be taken away. This skill is a part of you. Notice all there is to notice, from your breath to your posture and how you feel. Allow yourself to relish in this moment of victory. You may sense the corners of your mouth curl up into a smile. You may even jump up in celebration in your mind's eye. And as you celebrate getting good at your new skill, repeat the following affirmation in your mind. My brain can easily contain a lot of information. I can learn anything I choose to. I’m finding learning new things easy and fun. I believe in myself and my abilities. I have a great memory. My desire to learn new things increases daily. I am always motivated to learn new things. I am a naturally smart and intelligent person. I have full confidence in my learning abilities. Let yourself feel a sense of fulfillment. Take a moment to thank yourself for showing up to your practice and taking the time to develop a skill that you truly desire. Stay in this sense of gratitude for a few more moments, the gratitude for learning a new skill, your ability, and your mindset. When you are ready, slowly come back to your physical body. Wiggle the fingers and toes. At your own pace, open the eyes. If you've enjoyed this guided meditation, subscribe to our channel and download the Enhanced app for exclusive guided meditations, visualizations, and more. Find the download link in the description below. Make sure to leave a like and comment; it helps with the Youtube algorithm and supports the channel. Thank you for listening, and we will see you at the next session.  English      
0 hey guys it's hi welcome back to my youtube channel and today we are going to be doing a guided meditation on passing your exams and getting good grades after watching this video you will come out with amazing perfect straight a's and a hundred percent on all of your exams you take further on the first thing that i want you to do is get into a comfortable position you can be sitting you can be laying down whatever is comfortable for you right now once you're in that position i want you to close your eyes now we're going to be focusing on our breathing i want you to breathe in one two three and breathe out one two three again breathe in one two three and breathe out one two three breathe in breathe out breathe in breathe out for the next few seconds i want you to focus on your breathing every time you breathe in i want you to feel your lungs filling up with air with every exhale i want your body to fall into whatever position you are sitting or laying in with every exhale i want you to become more and more relaxed  i'm going to count to 10 feel free to follow along or just to continue to focus on your breathing one two three four five six seven eight nine and ten now that we're relaxed we're going to start focusing on getting into the feeling of the wish fulfilled i want you to visualize being in whatever room you would be in if you were taking a test or an exam or doing your schoolwork i want you to place yourself in that situation what are you seeing maybe a classroom maybe a computer in front of you what are you seeing next i want you to visualize yourself being completely utterly confident in your abilities to do perfectly on this assignment what are you feeling maybe you're feeling overly cocky or confident maybe you're feeling like this is super super easy what are you feeling  now i want you to visualize a few days or weeks later you're sitting in the same spot and you finally receive your test score or your assignment grade immediately you are so excited maybe you visualize yourself getting up and jumping around or maybe you visualize looking to your friend to the left of you saying how excited you are that you got a 100 percent on this assignment  what are you feeling right now are you feeling proud of yourself are you feeling excited  maybe you're feeling relieved what are you feeling i want you to sit on this feeling for a few more seconds and really try to feel yourself being there now we're going to focus a little bit on the past we're going to revise that you have only ever gotten straight a's you have never been a bad student you have always done perfectly on any exam that you have taken any score below 100 does not belong to you repeat after me all assignments are extremely easy for me being a good student comes naturally for me i never have to stress about getting good grades because i've never gotten a bad grade in my life  every assignment i do i get a perfect score i'm the smartest person i know everything i do i'm good at things come very easy for me i get perfect scores without spending hours studying school has always been super easy for me  i'm going to give you the next few minutes to just sit down and repeat affirmations or visualize do whatever you want but from now on you are a star student you have only ever gotten a's and from now forward every exam you take you will pass easily   as we're reaching the end of this guided meditation i want you to start wiggling your toes when you're ready and then wiggling your fingers waking your body up a little bit more when you're ready open your eyes and you are done from now on you are an amazing student you only ever get perfect scores that is it for today's meditation thank you guys so much for watching as always watching this video has helped you manifest say it with me watching this video has helped me manifest watching this video has helped me manifest and i will see you guys soon bye 
0 begin by letting yourself get into whatever position feels best to you  and when you're ready softly close your beautiful eyes and tune your awareness inwards focusing on your breath and your body letting your belly be soft and loose if it's not already there's nothing to hold on to here allow any muscles you do not need to use right now to become slack and relaxed feel how the air flows naturally in and out without you having to try or do anything your only role is to allow your only role is to allow let the feeling behind that sentence seep in you only rule is to allow what do you wish to allow love joy prosperity peace on the planet whatever you wish to allow you must first line up with feel within you and then allow it to flow through you allow it to fuel you what do you wish to line up with today identify the emotion you wish to feel and generate it within you right now you may surprise yourself at how easily it begins to come identify where you first feel it perhaps to begin you had a thought come to mind that gives you the feeling you do not need to continue to think about anything but rather continue to focus on the feeling watch as the feeling grows let your focus on this feeling be all you need right now and if your mind does wander that's perfectly okay simply return your focus to the feeling again over and over continually coming back to how good this feels with no other motive than to give yourself the gift of feeling this way now isn't that enough don't you deserve to there need not be any other reason any other motivation than to give yourself the gift of lining up with feeling good watch now as the feeling continues to grow  perhaps thoughts of affirmation start to trickle in if this happens allow only redirect if the thoughts seem to drift from the feeling you're experiencing to refocus on the feeling otherwise you may notice thoughts begin to pop up that line up with the feeling that perhaps even enhance the feeling allow those revel in those enjoy the feelings i will leave you alone now for a few minutes to continue to practice this and enjoy this trust and know whatever you experience is right for you and you can only get it right enjoy       now begin to imagine that this feeling is concentrated in the center of your chest and a couple of inches inwards imagining it living within a beautiful egg within your heart you may see this egg as golden or white or perhaps some other color or pattern trust what you see notice its size and feel how it perfectly contains these feelings seeing them as concentrated in this space now imagine a column of light extending from as high as you can imagine down through your head out through the soles of your feet and into the core of the earth imagine now that the egg within your heart begins to lift up through this column of light and it hovers about one foot above your head and splits open from it extends all of the energy that you just felt  and it flows out like an umbrella around you sealing you in creating another egg but this time all around your body  sealing you into this feeling completely you will carry these emotions with you in your heart today everywhere you go carry this feeling with you as you begin to roll your shoulders wiggle your fingers and toes and when you're ready open your eyes back to the world around you you  English (auto-generated)      
0 Awaken Your Intuition |10 Minute Guided Meditation To Enhance Your Inner Voice Your intuition is the heart of your soul. It connects you to a higher intelligence that protects you and guides you. It knows everything you want in this lifetime. And, it knows how to get you there. All you need to do is quiet the mind, ask a question, and listen to your heart. This meditation will guide you to tap into your intuition’s infinite wisdom and transform your life in a magical way. Begin by finding a comfortable position sitting or laying down. When you are ready, gently close your eyes and let out a deep breath. Exhale all that you have been carrying around with you throughout the day. This is a new moment. Leave everything else in the past and bring your awareness to this moment. As you inhale through the nose, slowly follow your breath as it travels from your nostrils, down your throat, and into your lungs. Feel the air expand and fill up your entire chest. And as you exhale, focus on the steady stream of air that comes from out of your body. Keep focusing on your breathe a few more moments, and let your body fully relax. Anytime you notice your thoughts wandering off, bring yourself back to the present moment by focusing on your breathing. You are safe here. Surrender to this moment. Now, we are going deeper into relaxation. Bring your attention to your feet. Imagine warm energy slowly pouring over your feet and going up to your legs. Feel how all the tension is leaving your feet and legs. Visualize the energy going up to your torso. Feel your lower body getting heavier and heavier. As the energy goes up, it relaxes your stomach, chest, shoulders, arms, neck. Imagine this energy like a blanket that melts and hugs your entire body. Feel your body as it’s pulled by gravity, sinking deeper into the surface beneath you. Feel the energy going up and loosen all your face muscles. Allow this relaxing feeling to release all the tension from your body. From this place of full relaxation, shift your attention to the space between your eyebrows. This is your third eye chakra. It is the place where your soul meets your physical body. It also provides the wisdom necessary to access truth beyond time and space. Imagine a single point of purple energy penetrating the space between your eyebrows. Visualize the purply energy going deeper into your skull. Extend that energy outwards as well, and imagine the purple light beaming out of your third eye. Feel the tingling sensation as you bring focused attention to this area. You may also feel a buzz of powerful energy all around your forehead. Go deeper into the sensation as you connect to your intuition center. Now, think about an area of your life that you would like guidance or clarity on and form a question that could shed light on it. Ask for the answer to be revealed to you. Be open to any information you receive. Notice any thoughts that arise. Avoid censoring your thoughts or processing them with your rational mind. Just observe what comes up without overthinking about it. Even if things don’t seem to make sense or the answers feel incomplete, just note everything that comes up without judgment. If it feels right to do so, ask additional questions, one at a time. But, do not force the answers. If you still feel that you need more information, let it come to you. Know that your intuition will communicate to you in perfect timing. Your intuition has heard you, and the answers will come. With this understanding, relax your mind and focus on the space between your eyebrows once again. Take three deep breaths. With each inhale, breathe in light. With each exhale, breathe out worry and fear. Repeat these affirmations either out loud or in your head: I trust myself and the voice that speaks within me. All that I need to know at this moment is revealed to me. I am always in the right place at the right time. My intuition effortlessly guides me. My intuition guides me to everything that is meant for me. I am wise, intuitive, and connected to my inner guidance. I am one with the highest intelligence that guides my soul. Take one last deep breath and wiggle your fingers and toes to bring awareness back to your body. Shake your arms and legs gently. Gently open your eyes and bring your awareness back to your surroundings. If you've enjoyed this guided meditation, subscribe to our channel and download the Enhanced app for exclusive guided meditations, visualizations, and more. Find the download link in the description below. Make sure to leave a like and comment; it helps with the Youtube algorithm and supports the channel. Thank you for listening, and we will see you at the next session.  English       
0  welcome thank you for making the decision and taking the action to take control of your life in your personal academic performance this is dr. John Chiu back I have traveled an exceptionally long and rewarding path in my personal academic experience I am an expert on the subject of academic success let me now share with you of some of the most powerful tools and secrets I have learned over the course of many years of serious study if applied regularly I am certain that you will achieve many wonderful things in your life through the practices and habits I will share with you in this audio exercise these concepts will empower you to become anything in this world that you would like to become I am going to guide you through a deep relaxation exercise which will help you in your journey to become the best possible student you can be if practiced regularly this guided meditation will help you to realize your full academic potential now let's get started on our path to the most successful academic you find a comfortable chair to sit in or a bed to recline on create a dimly lit environment for yourself this is a time for silent solitude there are to be no distractions this is a time for personal growth empowerment and development please avoid bright artificial light during this mental journey the presence of natural sunlight is perfectly fine some people prefer during this exercise lying in the grass on a sunny day experiment and find the environment that works best for you this may change from session to session depending on where you are and your mood there are no mistakes that can be made in this process no one is judging your performance no one is grading you do what works best for you you may begin with your eyes open or closed they may open or close during the meditation it's okay be relaxed do what comes naturally to you let's begin by becoming completely aware of our own physical body we will begin at your toes be aware of their presence but let them be totally and completely relaxed visualize each toe begin with your little toe and move centrally one by one to the big toe let them relax feel the tension of the day flow out of your body through your toes just relax now mentally move up along the course of your body acknowledging the resting position of your feet we often carry stress in our feet they serve to carry our bodies through the physical world let them simply relax completely and totally now we continue to move upward to our lower extremities the legs and the thighs these are large muscle groups that work hard throughout the day to transport us give them a rest let them sink into the chair of bed let go release the muscles consciously unwind feel the muscle fibres relaxing now considering be aware of your buttocks and pelvis we often hold stress here as well relax free yourself of the tension you Harbor here let your pelvic floor relax and release this is a wonderful feeling proceed upward to your core the abdominal region in the low back these are areas we often work hard to strengthen and tighten now is a time to let them be loose and free of strain take a slow deep breath in through your nose for a count of four and exhale for a count of four repeat this rhythmic breathing four times lowering your diaphragm with each inhalation filling the lungs fully with fresh oxygenated air be quiet in this process avoid excessive noise be at peace within your own body as it is at the moment care for your physical self embrace who and how you are right now remember no one is judging you please do not stand in judgment of yourself take another slow deep breath for a count of four exhale for a count of four empty your lungs fully on each exhalation ridding your body of any air trapped at the basis of your lungs think of how cleansing this form of breathing is simply take the time to relax and breathe but stay in the moment the intent here is not to fall asleep the goal is to be living fully in the moment in acceptance of your body and yourself experience the joy in the relaxation and self-acceptance if you do fall asleep don't criticize yourself no one is judging you this is not a test this is a self-awareness exercise this is a journey of personal development stay clear and attentive but remain stress-free and relaxed now let's move superiorly to the chest and upper back this again is a large muscle zone we store tension here let everything release and unwind take four more cleansing breaths remember to breathe in by lowering the diaphragm on a count of four fill your ribcage gently expand as you do this let your spine lengthen gently and let go of all muscular tension sinking to the surface you're sitting or lying on feel the gentle pull of the Earth's gravity on your body feel the natural relationship between yourself and the reassuring force of nature this is a powerful experience finally consider your neck and your head in our neck and face we store stress and tension unclench your jaw relax your tongue relax your eyes gently elongate your neck without straining and let the back of your head sink with its natural weight into the pillow or cushion you are completely awake but totally at peace you are completely in tune with yourself now again for slow deep breaths in through the nose and out through the mouth you are very relaxed and completely aware of your entire body from head to toe this is a wonderfully empowering feeling the knowledge of yourself now that you're in a beautifully peaceful state of mind let's begin your journey to becoming the best student you can possibly be let go of all self-criticism self deprecation is never helpful let's leave that behavior behind you you will never think that way about yourself again from now on you will be your own greatest fan from now on you will be your own personal cheerleader you will have complete self confidence that there is nothing you cannot achieve academically you can achieve anything you can imagine in school imagine yourself as an incredibly capable student see yourself in your mind's eye the way you would like to appear sitting in class and walking down the hallway imagine how people Revere you for your intelligence knowledge and work ethic you are a total winner tell yourself school is a place where I feel comfortable school is a place where I succeed I love myself and I love my school school and education will be the chariot I ride to future success remember that leaders are readers leaders are readers leaders are readers remind yourself that nothing hard is ever easy nothing hard is ever easy nothing hard is ever easy don't wish and hope that school work easier no that you will be well prepared for every situation tell yourself I am well prepared for every situation in school I am well prepared for every situation in school I am well prepared for every situation in school remind yourself of the simple principles that lead to ultimate academic achievement I am well rested when I arrive at school I am always early to school I am always early to school I sleep at least 8 hours every night I sleep well to rest my mind I sleep well to rest my body I remember the classic teaching early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy wealthy and wise tell yourself that he who will thrive must rise at 5 he who has the ribbon may rise at 7 knowing your heart that knowledge is power knowledge is power knowledge is power doing well in school requires a few simple disciplines practiced everyday tell yourself I am always early to school I always eat a nutritious breakfast before school my brain is like a powerful muscle it needs energy to function at its best I always eat a nutritious breakfast before school I always get to school with a full tank of fuel for my brain to utilize in thinking and solving problems I always get to class on time I always get to class on time I always get to class on time when someone tries to waste my time in the hallway I say I'd really love to talk about it but right now I've got to get to class then I go to class on time and let that kid ruin someone else's future I always get to class on time I won't allow anyone to ruin my future with nonsense I am always prepared for class I am always prepared for class I am always prepared for class I do all of my homework all of the time I do all of my homework all of the time I do all of my homework all of the time I always do my homework to the best of my ability I always do my homework to the best of my ability I always hand in work that I am proud of I always hand in work that I am proud of I always do high-quality work I always do high quality work I sit up front whenever possible I sit up front whenever possible I don't allow distractions to ruin my future I don't allow distractions to ruin my future I always pay attention in class I always pay attention in class I take excellent notes my notes are truly superb my notes are always complete Nate and Thoreau I ask questions about anything I don't understand I am a class leader everyone respects my knowledgebase and my work ethic people see me as a serious and superior student I take my education seriously because it will be the greatest determinant of how successful I am in life I never waste time television is a costly waste of my time video games are a complete waste of my time my time is my most valuable asset I never waste time I use time wisely I invest my time in myself I invest my time in my schoolwork I invest my time in my preparation I never waste my time my time is too valuable to be wasted I am valuable I deserve to be the best I asked questions after class I make appointments with teachers after class when I have more questions I am genuinely curious and inquisitive I want to learn as much as I can I want to learn as much as I can I desire knowledge and skills I never waste time time is my greatest asset I use time to my advantage I remind myself that every day is a school day and everyone is a teacher every day is a school day and everyone is a teacher I remind myself of the proverb when the student is ready the teacher will appear when the student is ready the teacher will appear I am ready to be a great student I am ready to be a great student I am completely open to learning I am open to learning and growing I desire lifelong intellectual emotional and psychological growth I desire an exceptional life with extraordinary knowledge I am proactive in my education I am NOT a procrastinator I am proactive in my education I never wait until the last moment the last day or the last night to do my work I do my work as soon as it is assigned I start reading the book the first day it is assigned to me I read every day I read every day I remember that leaders are readers and readers are leaders I never wait I make no excuses I make no excuses I am fully responsible for my own performance I take full responsibility for my results I take full responsibility for my results I blame no one for my failures I take full credit for my successes because I've earned them through hard consistent work I am highly organized I am highly disciplined I love the feeling of being prepared I love being organized and disciplined I love the feeling of completing tasks as they should be done I never take the easy way and sacrifice quality in my work I love being efficient and effective in my schoolwork I take every assignment seriously and study hard for every test and quiz I have self-respect I respect myself I love myself I am an excellent student I carry myself with dignity and integrity inside and outside of the classroom I am careful every time I take a test I read every question carefully I read every question very carefully I never rush when taking a test I never hand in my test first I always hand in my test last when all of the allotted time has elapsed the time given for the test is mine to use this is a wonderful resource I take the time to review as many questions as possible as many times as possible if there is any time remaining in the testing period I checked my work carefully because I realize that I can find silly mistakes if I check my work I am leaving careless errors behind me I will be careful when I take a test from now on I am never in a rush to get out of the testing room I never lose points for careless errors or silly mistakes I take my work and my future seriously I am an excellent student because I am consistent I am an excellent student because I am careful I am an excellent student because I care about myself and my work I am an excellent student because I am comprehensive in my approach to school when I study for an exam I make sure to get through all of the material I don't leave any area of the material unstudied I first review everything on a superficial level before spending too much time getting too deep in any given area of the subject matter I'd rather know something about everything on the exam then everything about some things on the exam it feels so good to succeed it feels so good to be successful I am a high achiever I am a super achiever no one is perfect I am not perfect I never get angry at myself I always encourage myself to simply do the best I can I don't judge myself on results I am only concerned with the quality of my effort if I have tried my best I am always pleased with my performance I love myself I love being knowledgeable I enjoy my studies I enjoy school I love myself and I like my teachers I build strong relationships with my teachers and my classmates I am respected by my teachers and my classmates I have great self-respect now see yourself as an excellent student well prepared and confident see yourself sitting in class attentively see yourself walking in the hallway purposefully on your way to class see yourself opening a wonderful report card full of good news see yourself being proud and self-confident amongst your peers see yourself as a student others look up to this is a wonderful feeling now take four deep slow breaths the counter for as you inhale the counter for as you exhale slowly open your eyes if they have closed when you decide to stand up and continue with your day you will be recharged and energized you are focused on your new way of life you will practice this exercise every day feel the power in your body as you begin to gently flex all the muscles in all the parts of your body open your eyes wide take two deep breaths inhale for a count of two exhale for a count of two thank you for taking this important journey you are getting better every day never quit believing in yourself and your ability to improve you and only you are in control of your true destiny
0 Welcome to SoothingPod’s meditation. In today’s meditation, we will be exploring  what it means to be creative, as well as how we   can better express ourselves with courage. And,  what does it take to colour outside the lines? Before we dive into this exploration,  take a moment to tune into this present   moment by bringing yourself to  a comfortable seated position. Gently elongate the spine, neck included,   and then allow your arms to rise up  overhead for a momentary stretch… … and then release them back down to rest  on the thighs, the knees, or in your lap. Draw your attention now to the breath,   mindfully watching the path it takes from the  outer world to the inner… and then back out again. Notice your breaths current rhythm and depth   as you begin to settle more comfortably into  this space. With every mindful breath we take,   the racing mind softens and we become more  receptive to whatever is here right now. Continuing to breathe mindfully,  expand your awareness to include   any other sensations you might be experiencing. Perhaps you notice a tingling sensation…  a tightness… a softening… or an expansion. Whatever is the case for you right now, simply  witness each sensation without any judgment,   inviting the breath deep into any areas  of tension if discomfort is present. Inhale a sense of nourishment and inspiration… … and exhale all tension, all fear, and  any discomfort that might be present.   If you feel completely at  ease in this moment already,   simply continue to watch the breath move  through you, cleansing you as it does so. Take just a few more breaths in silence, releasing  any rising thoughts with each exhalation. Creativity is often believed to be something  exclusive to people such as painters, poets,   and playwrights. And while these people do  tend to embody a high degree of creativity,   the essence of creativity is  something much broader than this. Creativity is the use of imagination or  inventiveness to create something new and   original, and by this definition, creativity is  something that all of us embody. Whether on paper   or canvas, or in our homes and relationships,  creativity expresses itself in numerous ways. In the words of writer Elizabeth Gilbert,  “If you’re alive, you’re a creative person.” Creativity is required to navigate  complicated relationships,   just as much as it’s needed to  compose a great piece of music.   Of course these are very different examples of  the use of creativity, but at the core of them,   they require the same things: courage, confidence,  and a willingness to step beyond the familiar. To be creative, we need to be willing to make  mistakes – to be willing to colour outside of   the lines. Through mistakes, we learn.  Through colouring beyond our boundaries,   we discover we are capable of far  more than we had previously imagined. So, take a moment now to return to your breath,   silently inviting your innate capacity  for creativity to rise to the surface. Now, silently repeat the words: My imagination has no bounds. I honour my unique expression of creativity. I am willing to draw outside of the lines. Continuing to breathe slowly and steadily,  with these affirmations lingering in mind,   notice how it feels to honour the  creative energy within your being. And, if the mind intervenes to  deny your embodiment of creativity,   gently invite these self-limiting beliefs  into the heart for healing and release. When it comes to creativity, it is not possible to  compare ourselves to any standards we might hold.   Our creative energy and potential is  unique to who we are as individuals. Take another deep breath in, all  the way to the base of the belly…  And as you exhale, release any fears,   any limitations, or any standards you might  hold for yourself in relation to creativity. Gently allow the heart space to  open wider on your next inhalation,   inviting your courage and confidence  to rise alongside your creativity. Take just a few more slow and steady breaths now,  silently honouring your unique creative potential. Observe the natural ebb and flow of one more   breath… … and then shift your attention back  to your physical presence in this room. When you are ready, gently open your eyes.  I hope you enjoyed today’s  meditation. See you again.  English (United States)       
0 if it's comfortable for you let's begin by taking a gentle deep breath in through the nose and out through the mouth and with that exhalation adopting a comfortable posture of awareness returning the breath to its natural rhythm and allowing your attention to gently drop into this present moment and without turning or looking around just lightly bringing into your awareness all that's in your surrounding space and with your next out breath allowing your focus to fall onto one specific object that's in your field of vision and it's not an intense stare so just maintaining it as a very soft focus and this is a gentle practice so if at any point the eyes become fatigued allowing yourself to gently close them for a moment or two and then reopening them nice and easy noticing as any thoughts come and go and just returning the attention back to your object and now letting the focus zoom back out again being aware of your surroundings perhaps blinking a few times allowing this cultivated focus to follow you into your next activity  you
0 Welcome to Soothing Pod’s meditation.  In this session, we’ll explore the   ways our meditation practice can help us  better enjoy who we are and what we do.   Begin by finding a quiet place to sit.   Gently close your eyes, and  let your spine lengthen.   As you sit up tall, release any unnecessary  tension so that you stay alert yet relaxed.   And as you start to settle  in, take a few deep breaths.   As you exhale, let go of any  expectations you have for your practice.   Let go of commitments for the rest of your day.   And set aside whatever you  don’t need at this moment.   Now, turn towards your breath.   Soft, smooth inhales and exhales.   There’s no need to shape or control your  breath. Instead, notice its natural flow.   Observe your breath’s length.  Notice its depth… its temperature.   Just let your breath be as it is, and stay  present from the start of each inhalation   to the end of each exhalation.   As you breathe in, watch the breath moving  through your nostrils... your ribs expanding...   your belly rising. As you breathe out,  follow the movement of your belly releasing,   your ribs gently contracting, and your  breath moving out of your nostrils again.   Stay with the whole cycle of your breath,  noticing your whole body breathing with you.   And now, invoke a sense of  appreciation for your breath.   As you observe each cycle, enjoy the wave of  your breath. Notice the freshness of each inhale.   The soft ease of the exhales.   And when your mind inevitably wanders,   drop any judgments or labels, and bring your  attention back to your breath once more.   Tap into the ebb and flow of your  breath with kindness and appreciation.   Now, allow your awareness to soften.   Have you ever stopped to ask yourself  if you like the person that you are   and the life that you’ve created? Regardless of  what your life looks like, it can be exhausting   to live in a world where we don’t like who we are  or what we do. And no matter how hard we work or   how many goals we manage to reach, we’ll never  feel truly content until we learn to accept,   to like, and eventually to love who we are. Liking  ourselves isn’t about landing our ideal job,   living in our dream house, or having the  perfect family. It’s about learning to hold   ourselves with love and respect, celebrating  our strengths, and honoring our weaknesses.   Meditation is a powerful tool which helps us step  more fully into our authentic selves, and learn to   appreciate our unique gifts and qualities. Every  time we make room for our breath, just as it is,   we are developing self-acceptance. And when we  turn towards our experience with appreciation   and kindness, we are building our capacity  to honor and celebrate ourselves. It is   from this place that we also learn  to appreciate and value who we are,   how we speak and act, and how we move  through our days. As Maya Angelou once said:   “Success is liking yourself, liking  what you do, and liking how you do it.”   Now, slowly come back to your breath and send  a wave of appreciation into your whole body.   When you’re ready, wiggle your fingers  and toes. And let your eyes softly open.   Enjoy the rest of your day, and  we’ll see you back here soon.  English (United States)       
0 mindfulness is a great way to increase your ability to focus so in this meditation we will combine the two allow yourself to get into a comfortable seated position spine tall and straight sit bones balanced on either side shoulders rolled back slightly to open up your heart and palms resting facing downwards in your lap when you feel ready softly close your eyes and turn your awareness inwards begin to become more deeply aware of your breath belly and rib cage expand as you breathe in and contract as you breathe out  as you focus on this breath allow yourself to be the gentle observer all throughout the course of this meditation whatever you are guided to focus on allow yourself to simply gently observe it without any judgment focusing on it with a sense of kindness compassion and allowance allowing whatever is to simply be so right now let's focus in specifically on any sensations in your nose what do you notice here as you breathe focus all of your awareness in your nose practicing being the observer  now allow your focus to travel down into your chest  observing any sensations here noticing what muscles you engage as you breathe  can you feel the sensation of clothes on your skin here stay focused solely on this area  practicing being the gentle observer noticing what is here with a sense of allowance   now focus in on your belly  notice how it expands as you breathe in and contracts as you breathe out what else do you notice here observing any feelings outside your belly and inside  just noticing what is without any need to change anything practicing being the gentle observer focusing on this one place  now shift your mindful awareness to your hands focusing all of your awareness in your hands perhaps feeling their temperature any points of contact  what else do you observe  let whatever you notice simply be as all of your focus rests here  now let's practice focusing with mindful awareness on the feet what sensations do you notice here both internally and externally letting all of your awareness focus on your feet accepting and allowing whatever is here to simply be  now that you've practiced using mindfulness to focus on several different areas of your body now allow yourself to choose one particular area of your body to focus on go there now with your awareness what do you notice here observing sensations  temperature both any inner and outer observations staying completely focused on this one particular area what else do you notice i will leave you now to stay mindfully present with this space allowing what is to simply be as you gently observe it with kindness and compassion focusing all of your awareness here  wonderful job focusing begin to become aware of your body as a whole noticing the points of contact between you and the surface on which you are seated and begin to rule your shoulders really feeling everything as you move them begin to wiggle your fingers and toes and when you're ready slowly open your eyes back to the world around you  you  English (auto-generated)      
0 welcome to a guided meditation for focus for studying on the clutter of the mind let's start the practice by finding a comfortable seat you can practice this meditation right where you're planning to study so it can be on a computer chair or seat in the library or in the bedroom or in the office and just ensure you're sitting with your back upright but comfortable and resting your hands in your lap let's start with our eyes open and taking in a few big deep breaths breathing in through the nose and out through the mouth and now if you're doing this meditation in public such as in a library or school  you can keep your eyes opened for the practice just maintain a soft gaze looking downwards otherwise you can close your eyes here and allow your breath to return to a comfortable pace and let's start by reflecting on the reality of our distraction-filled world there's so many things competing for our attention but we ultimately have in us the ability to maintain control over our minds and our attention so let's start by setting an intention for this practice in your mind repeat the following may i have a focused and energized meditation session and now let's turn our attention to the breath most of us don't notice that we are breathing all day long we simply forget that we are breathing we're so caught up in our days and thoughts it just sits there in the background without us noticing so let's bring our attention to the breath and notice the sensations around breathing and you don't need to change the breath here just allow the body to breathe on its own and notice it watch the rising and falling sensations around the body with each inhale and exhale and when you inhale naturally picture yourself breathing all the way down into your toes feel as though the air travels all the way into each one of your toes on each in-breath and notice as you do this as you watch the breath and maintain this visual thoughts and feelings may arise and attempt to pull your attention away from the breath just like distractions in the world that attempt to pull your attention away while you study but we can notice distractions just like we notice the breath and when a distraction arises we don't need to engage with it or follow it with more thinking simply allow the distraction to come and go through the mind and then return your attention back to the breath and now imagine that when you inhale you are breathing all the way into each fingertip imagine the feeling in your hands as the breath extends all the way into each fingertip and again if you find that the mind has become distracted or lost in thought if it's planning or thinking about what you'll be doing after the practice don't become frustrated or attach more thoughts to these thoughts simply notice it as a distraction allow the thought to dissipate and then return your attention to the breath and now i want you to bring your attention to how you are feeling right now notice how focused or unfocused you are in this moment there's no judgment needed just be with whatever you notice and when it's time to focus and study all we need to do is calm the mind and ground our attention our goal is to keep our mind with the task at hand and let it enter a flow state on its own we just need to create the internal conditions to allow that to happen but this also means creating the right conditions in our external world so this practice focused on our internal worlds but outside we need to mute our phones close out all other tabs use tools that allow us to block social media and news sites create the conditions both internally and externally for a successful study session and now let's close out the practice by setting an intention for our studying session and for the rest of our day so in your mind repeat may i have a focused and productive study session may i be undistracted and concentrated may i be committed to my studies may i focus effortlessly and now open your eyes you've just completed the practice for studying thanks for sitting and may you have a focused and productive day you  English (auto-generated)     
0 let's begin sitting in a comfortable position gently close your eyes feel your body being supported by the earth feel the points at which your body is pressing into the floor or chair and notice the energy of the environment around you rising up to support your physical body as it sits here now take three long deep breaths in through the nose and exhale out through the mouth each time you breathe out you're feeling your body become more and more relaxed relax relaxing  breathing normally now through the nose placing all your attention on the air as it enters your body and the sensation of the air leaving your body as you exhale in and out  feeling the balance the cycle  in and down your buddy is relaxing as you focus on your breathing your mind is relaxing as you focus on your breathing in and out the breath of life perfect balance  in and out relaxing relaxing gently breathing no force no control just observing the breath as it enters and exits your body  view the aliveness inside your body feel the energy that exists inside your body right now in this very moment feel the tingles feel the movement feel the aliveness within you you out present you are experiencing yourself in the now moment peaceful calm balanced scented  focusing on breathing   imagine you are standing at the top of a staircase there are only ten steps not very many and they a nice big wide steps so we can move down them with each breath as we allow ourselves to become  and more relaxed taking your first breath in as you step down breathing in and out take another step 9 breathing in and out feeling you are becoming more and more relaxed stepping down again faint breathing deeply in and out relaxing you are totally safe totally at ease 7 breathing in and out fairly relaxed and peaceful 6 breathing in and out noticing that there is a bright light at the bottom of the staircase 5 breathing feeling your body becoming more and more relaxed for breathing deeply feeling relaxed and peaceful 3 feeling and relaxed noticing you are feeling like smiling - breathing in and out seeing a bright warm light at the bottom one you are on the last step now as you breathe you're feeling relaxed and peaceful warm and bright he step onto the ground now and he see all the light is beaming around big doors on a grassy hill you walk up to the doors and use both hands and just a little effort to push the doors open you stand there and or as you see the most beautiful garden you have ever seen there are magnificent trees gently swaying in the moon breeze the greenest luscious grass and beautiful colorful flowers this is the most beautiful magical place you have ever seen the air smells so clean and fresh this Sun feels so warm on your skin the ground feels so soft under your feet what a gift it is just to be here  you notice a gentle meandering stream and you walk over to it you notice that it turns into a waterfall over a distant Hill and you see the view  as the sky meets the distant mountain peaks you noticed the most beautiful changes in color from light white Blue has the mountains touch the sky as your gaze moves up the intensity of the blue increases until you are looking straight up and see the most vibrant incredible blue sky you have ever seen you breathe in that intense blue  you breathe in the incredible green of the grass and trees you breathe in the warm golden light from the Sun it feels so good you say to the earth and the beauty that is around you thank you thank you for this magnificent place thank you for the trees that help us to breathe thank you to the Sun for your life thank you beautiful flowers thank you water thank you magnificent earth for providing us with everything we could ever need not only to survive but to blossom in bloom  thank you beautiful earth for all your gifts  in this place you remember that you intended to meet your spirit guides or your inner being and turn to see a figure in the distance walking towards you you know that you are completely safe but only love exists and you feel completely ready and excited by the prospect of gaining greater awareness the figure from a distance seems reflective like it is made of light and reflects light at the same time so it seems to move within the space by reflecting the light around it  you feel happy a little excited and ready to receive as the being comes closer to you you have a sense of who it is and how this particular essence fits into your life or into the beingness that you are and have always been it feels familiar to you like you may be seeing or sensing this being deliberately for the first time but you feel so at ease and like you are seeing an old friend that you haven't caught up with for a very long time they are in front of you now it may still look like light to you or you may now be able to see particular expression or features on their face or you may just be able to feel but being you with in any case they are so happy to see you they are so appreciative of your openness to them and they want to applaud you for being here you can feel the love and appreciation from them you can feel the big smile you can feel the warmth and appreciation and love they have for you you may wish to sit with the one that is with you we'll go for a walk with them or find a special spot just for the two of you to talk your friend is here for you and will answer any questions you have so simply be open to hearing feeling or seeing the answers you are a great listener a great receiver you hear words feel feelings and see things every day this is no different spend some time with them they enjoyed to be noticed for you and will be very gentle in their expression and answering any questions you may have I will wait for you here on the grass in this beautiful place while you spend some time with your friend       just wrapping up your communication now finishing off just for now you can come back any time you want to continue your communication they absolutely love seeing you here and are so grateful for the conscious acknowledgment he will remember everything you received and can simply ask again for any clarification saying thank you to your friend also thanking yourself for your openness and willingness to receive we will start to make our journey back feeling the warmth of the Sun and light around us breathing in the fresh air and feeling the soft ground underneath us we say thank you for this space for this birth for everything we have received we make our way back to the big doors on the hill as we walk through them we see the staircase once again as we walk slowly up the staircase each step being one breath in and out stepping on the first step take a deep breath in ten and down stepping up to the next step breathing in 9 and down stepping on to the next step 7 breathing deeply in and out feeling more aware of the air as it enters your chest stepping up again 6 breathing in and out feeling the aliveness in your body as you breathe stepping up 5 breathing deeply feeling your fingers and toes and gently wriggling them stepping up full breathing deeply really relaxed and peaceful feeling the return to your body feeling your fingers and toes stepping up three breathing deeply failing ourselves sitting on the floor or in the chair stepping up - breathing deeply feeling your body as you were fully aware of yourself in this moment here and now and one final step up breathing deeply in and out fully back here and now feeling your body and when you're ready gently opening your eyes expect to receive signs over the next few days to confirm your experiences thank you for sharing this moment with me my love and appreciation flows out to you  you
0 you welcome to this guided meditation focusing on being open to change for growth and uncovering your values find a position you can be comfortable in turn off all distractions and settle in for the next 20 minutes or so close your eyes and begin to bring your awareness to your breath without changing your breath without any judgments or expectations of what it should or shouldn't be notice how your breath flows in through your nose and fills up your body with life as it flows out each exhale takes with it any physical and emotional tension as if that tension just melts away from your body to be gone forever as you may still have thoughts going through your mind notice them from afar as if you are an observer then allow the thoughts to pass by you can say in your mind thinking and allow that thought to move on and return your attention to your breath and to the sound of my voice as your guide on this journey of relaxation and discovery now as you begin to deepen each breath in and out notice the stillness that comes between each inhale and exhale as your breath deepens focus your attention on the stillness between the breaths take another deep slow breath in making your deepest breath yet fill your lungs completely and then release the breath through your mouth like a sigh empty your lungs completely and feel all the tension in your body loosen then inviting your breath to return to a natural rhythm allow each breath to deepen your level of relaxation give yourself permission to be fully supported by the surface below you to turn off all distractions and to be open to the possibilities of what comes with a state of comfort as you move deeper into this meditation approach it with the intention of letting go of expectations letting go of comparisons and just discover what comes up without any judgement and now turn your attention to the top of your head and imagine there is a warm light surrounding you and protecting you visualize this light see the lights color see the glowing nature of the soft warm light and as this light passes over your body it progressively relaxes you and releases each muscle small and large from your head all the way down to your toes so you begin to feel your forehead soften and smooth your eyebrows and eyes melt the tiny muscles around your eyes release you feel your eyelids becoming very heavy your cheeks lengthen down on the sides of your face you part your teeth unclench your jaw and relax your tongue you feel your throat softening and as the muscles around your eyes let go and the jaw releases the rest of the body knows what to do and will respond by letting go of any held tension as well you see and feel the warm glowing light moving downwards continuing this progressive relaxation like a wave washing over you feel the tension melting out of your shoulders moving down your arms so that the tension flows out of your body through your fingertips feel how each part of your body becomes heavy and connected to the Earth's energy as you allow it to let go this connection of energy will support you on your journey of self-discovery today with each breath your chest and abdomen begin to feel heavy and you are fully supported by your surroundings and protected by this glowing calming light as it continues the relaxation process and notice how deep and calm your breath has become as you continue to relax deeper and deeper this light continues to move down your body releasing the tension from your lower back and hips your thighs and pelvis feel very heavy and sink down into the surface below you your knee is softened and your calves melt as your body continues to rest heavy your ankles and feet let go of any remaining tension that your body may still feel to be completely relaxed safe and supported now take one more moment to scan your body for any residual tightness pain or tension and then breathe into that area so that you can completely let go and surrender to the heaviness of gravity and now your whole body is heavy on the earth strongly connected and rooted into the Earth's energy we are all connected in this world every living thing there are no gaps between us we are exchanging molecules with each other constantly with the animals with the trees with the water we are one collective field of energy now that you are deeply relaxed begin to use your imagination and visualize yourself outside on a wooded trail take in your surroundings with all of your senses you can see the gentle rays of sunshine coming through the branches of the trees Sun castle gentle warmth on your skin and you feel that the temperature is perfect for you the air feels pure and smells fresh and clean notice how your feet feel on the path and how the surface below feels in contact with your feet look at your surroundings and take in all the sights of nature it is peaceful and quiet on this wooded trail and you can feel your body remain in its calm and relaxed state feeling very safe you begin to walk along the trail and your attention is drawn to a small lake on one side of the path in the distance although the water is calm you can hear the noise the water makes as it moves with the breeze you feel yourself walking in the direction of the water slowly moving step by step you get to the sloping bank of the water and look out at the sparkling reflections of the trees and the Sun on the glassy water standing on the bank of the lake you root your feet down and feel the Earth's energy come up through your body taking in this energy into your body it grounds you and centers you you feel this energy all the way up to your head and all around you protecting you and supporting you you feel the Earth's energy in your heart and your soul this energy relaxes you even more deeply it is supportive and enjoyable to feel and connect to the Earth's energy this energy is pure love now imagine your feet are growing roots down into the earth they are powerful holding you firm and strong see these roots growing down into the earth growing down deep into the soil to support you through the strongest winds the most challenging times now that you are grounded and connected to the collective energy around you take in this loving energy bring it in word begin to connect to your heart explore what you are feeling in this moment if you have thoughts that are coming to a mind acknowledge them and allow them to pass like clouds in the sky and keep coming back to the feelings in your body simply feel the sensations that arise for you the connection that you made with the Earth's energy is grounding and your strong roots will you support you on your journey of discovery and growth in your mind continue walking along the wooded trail as you begin to explore the idea of your values and with each step you will find that you are becoming more and more relaxed allow your mind to wander and be imaginative you are aware of your thoughts and you know you have the ability to change from a negative thought to a positive one just by being aware you know all it takes is a thought to make a change you change your life the moment you decide to change you choose to live life how you choose to live life you know that you are not the sum of your circumstances you are the sum of your choices so you choose to live in alignment with what is truly important to you now begin to imagine if you could not fail what would your ideal self look like see the image of yourself in vivid detail there are no financial or time restraints and nothing is getting in your way what would your most desirable goals and dreams be this can be how you would like to live how you would like to show up in this world how you would like to feel or what you would like to accomplish and most importantly how will you feel when these goals and dreams are your reality what feelings are important to you to have in your life what emotions do you want to cultivate more of in your life in this ideal life what are the personal values that you live by and that guide your decisions you what and who is most important to you what would it look like for you to give more value by doing what you love in the world around you and how will that feel draw those feelings up to the surface for you now while you may not know your future clearly your values and visions are coming to the surface and are becoming more concrete now that you have a clear image of what you really want you know you are moving towards this vision this ideal self this ideal version of you you know what to do to live in alignment with what you really want when there is a choice to make you can see it clearly you have an anchor to lean on this image of your ideal life this is what you really want it is easy to get off track when you do not define what you want in your life but now you know now you can see it you can even feel it it is happening and you know you are on the right track you are growing towards your ideal self right now whenever you have a choice you find it as easy to say to yourself this is how I live my life this is an alignment with what I truly want and what is important to me as your goals dreams and values begin to unfold in your mind you feel a building sense of increased motivation and purpose arising inside you you begin to realize that to change anything that change must begin with you and you are ready to take action toward your ideal life you have planted the seeds for your future consider again how will you feel when these goals and dreams are your reality and now that you have your sights set for the future realize that you are a confident person and you believe in your abilities you accomplish your goals and you are grateful for your successes your thoughts are positive and give you the confidence to grow and reach your goals this confidence keeps you motivated and willing to move out of your comfort zone you are focused yet open to possibilities of positive experiences with the clarity of your values your path has been illuminated for you opportunities present themselves often and you are prepared for anything that comes your way in your mind your thoughts are positive and you know you have the choice to live the life that you want in your mind consider the choices you have and repeat these phrases after me I choose to love deeply I choose to breathe deeply I choose to laugh and feel joy I choose to live with passion I choose to be courageous I choose to live with my whole heart I choose abundance in all aspects of my life I choose an authentic life I choose to be patient on this journey to change and growth take one more moment and consider how you choose to live your life and now let go of any negative thoughts that no longer serve you see your limiting beliefs and behaviors disappear self-doubt and fear are things of the past and you replace them with confidence and conviction you trust your instincts and your abilities you know there is no failure only opportunities to learn and grow here today you have planted the seeds for your ideal life you are confident and positive and taking action in the right direction to successfully reach your goals you are open to the possibilities as they unfold and you are committed to living in alignment with your personal values now bring your attention back to the wooded trail and your peaceful surroundings in your mind see yourself smiling I'm basking in the Sun with a positive and competent outlook feeling proud and grateful feeling the emotions you will have when you reach your goals you begin to walk away from the water feeling confident knowing that you can and will succeed and when you awake you will still feel this way and now bring your awareness back to the present moment back to your physical body to the surface below you you are feeling relaxed yet energized and confident your mind is clear you are committed to living in alignment with your values you believe in yourself and you are motivated to grow towards your ideal self begin to bring some gentle movements to your fingers and toes feeling a warm rush of energy flow over you and now you're fully in the present moment feeling energized take a deep breath and when you are ready open your eyes thank you for listening I hope you have a wonderful day you
0 do not listen to this recording while driving or operating machinery thank you you hi this is Joe Tracy and welcome to this guided meditation on removing blocks and barriers so to get started allow yourself get in a comfortable chair or lying in bed and taking a nice big deep breath and as he release it imagine the tension getting to leave your body and with your eyes closed focus your attention at the bottoms of your feet imagine that their cords going from the soles of your feet down into the earth grounding you and ultimately connecting you imagine that there's now stream of liquid relaxation now flowing up to the center of those courts into the soles of your feet and imagine that liquid relaxation is now spreading throughout the bottoms of your feet relaxing here feeling very calm and peaceful and any outside noises that you may become aware of will simply help you to relax more and more and that liquid relaxation is now spreading spreading to the tops of your feet to your ankles relaxing you even more as you sink deeper and deeper down continuing to focus on this Pleasant feeling liquid relaxation now spreads through your shins your calves your knees and your thighs and your legs are feeling very relaxed now as you're sinking deeper and deeper down and that liquid relaxation is now flowing through your hips your pelvis your stomach feeling very relaxed and it feels so good to just let go and to allow this liquid relaxation to spread throughout your body very nerve so working at muscle and their liquid relaxation it's now flowing into your chest filling your heart and lungs allowing you to brave deeper and even more relaxed and now that liquid relaxation spreading to your shoulders softening all the muscles there in your shoulders and it might even feel like a great weight just been lifted from your shoulders relaxing you even more you're sinking deeper down and the liquid relaxation now spreads from your shoulders down through your back softening each and every muscle there in your back and now that liquid relaxation spreads from your shoulders down through each arm down to your elbows your forearms your wrists and your hands all the way down to your fingertips and it's so calm so peaceful and the liquid relaxation is now spreading through your neck and throat beer chin and jaw through your cheeks behind your eyes or your forehead on the top of your head and every part of your face is completely relaxed in fact your entire body from the tips of your toes to the top of your head it's filled with this wonderful liquid relaxation and you're feeling so calm and unpeaceful now in just a moment I will begin the countdown and with each descending number your level of relaxation multiple want that to happen and allow that to happen five sinking deeper and deeper down four so calm so peaceful and so relaxed three letting go and it feels so good to just let go two getting even closer now one now peacefully and comfortably relaxed and now that you relaxed it's important to know and all things are possible in this private Haven this peaceful place let's take a walk out of your sanctuary and into a garden now as you walk through this beautiful garden notice the beautiful flowers along each side and you feel more peaceful and comfortable deep snap feeling so contempt and this path leads you to further enlightenment along this path you easily experience spiritual growth however your journey comes to an abrupt end when you suddenly see before you stone rock wall approach the wall that barricades your way as you look around on either side of the mall you see that there's no way around this wall and as you look up at how high the wall is you realize that you have to go past this wall the progress on your journey remaining on the side of the wall limits your personal growth perhaps you can jump over this wall move back just a bit and run a few steps jumping up as high as you can however you cannot reach the top you slide back down and this time you walk back even further and you run harder and jump towards the top of this wall but you still cannot reach the top again you slide back down the wall so now you go back many feet and with a running start you run as hard as you can and jump as high as you can and clench your fingers on the top of the wall soon start scratching your arms hurting your elbows as you fall back upon the ground and suddenly you realize that this wall it's a part of yourself that you've repressed it's a part of you carefully hidden from the world and perhaps even yourself this wall was a block on your journey through life it's a part of yourself and needs to be healed but you must move beyond this wall in order to continue to grow and learn about yourself so one more time we try to go over this wall you start back even further and run harder you jump as high as you can climbing grasping at the wall but you slide down scratching your face and hands hurt your knees and as you stand up and look at yourself you realize that to fight this wall will destroy you so you think what am I gonna do how am I gonna get past this wall this part of myself that needs to be healed if it's important for you to know take a moment now to understand a part of you is causing this block what is the emotion or event that has kept you stuck walk up now and place your hands on the wall you can smell the stones and feel the roughness of the wall you realize again there's no way around this wall and no way to go over or under this wall you have to go through the wall ask yourself I will take you through this wall all your beliefs will help you now a belief in yourself that you can do anything and you can do it begin the pro one foot into the wall and feel your foot go into the wall put one hand into the wall bring your other foot into the wall and your other hand into the wall you're now a few inches unto the wall it's becoming very clear now you have to get through this block in order to heal there's no way around it no way over it in no way to go under it take one more step and another step and soon you realize that the wall is very thick but you're standing in it somewhere in the middle of this wall breathing easily and effortlessly standing in the middle of your block you may be wondering how can I do this how can I move myself through a wall did you have a choice you may go back to the other side of the wall or you can continue toward greater freedom and personal growth and if you decide to continue through this wall take another step and another step and as you can get almost to the edge of the wall you have to decide can I continue can I break through this wall can I get through this block you can do it just take one more step push yourself out suddenly you're standing on the other side of this wall you see a strange new world before you a world they've never seen before free open healthy world for you to personally experience freed forever from your block continue on your path now notice how different you feel as you continue on this path you come to a lake stop and look at your reflection in the water see how different you look now your thoughts are different your view of the world has changed the world around you seems brighter more clear the colors are more vibrant the air even smells fresher enjoy this new improved world within take a few moments now to absorb this transformation enjoying the shift within at your deepest level absorbing the change and every cell every thought and every believe you accepting all suggestions which were positive and beneficial for you and releasing anything that does not fit into your life at this time in just a moment I will invite you to return from your experience and as you return you will bring back your experience with you feeling calm and refreshed one feeling returning to your fingers and toes to all energies and complete balance Theret body closed three feeling more confident and in control realizing things that used to bother you in the past have now been released for feeling as if your eyes haven't bathe and cool clear water five realizing you have now release the blocks and now you'll experience more self development and spiritual growth eyes open fully aware you     
0 hi and welcome to a brain boost here from ezel this is a special brain boost that's designed to be a mantra or guided meditation that you can come back to anytime you're feeling especially challenged at work and you need to cultivate a growth mindset in the face of those challenges positive change is the result of working through the challenges before me flowers are nature's response for plants that needed to attract pollinators leaves were nature's response for plants that needed more energy the challenges that I face are a natural part of life and like a beautiful garden my mind will grow from facing the challenges before me when I'm stretching my abilities I expect to make some mistakes so when these mistakes come I'm going to react by taking a new approach by taking a smaller step towards solving the problem or when the stakes are especially high I'm going to use small experiments to test my ideas before I put them into broader action each time that I try something new I'm planting a seed in the garden of my mind in like a garden my mind grows from each new challenge that I face courage and bravery in the face of my challenges are the fertilizer for the garden of my mind the belief that I will never be able to do something is the ugly weed in the garden of my mind and I'm removing these weeds by smiling in the face of new challenges the garden of my mind is beautiful and ever-growing come back to this video whenever you need it and for a new brain boost every week here on the easel YouTube channel  English (auto-generated)      
0 begin by sitting in a comfortable position make sure you are in a place where you will not be interrupted let your spine grow tall and straight roll your shoulders back slightly to open up your heart place your palms in your lap facing upwards and whenever you're ready lovingly close your eyes begin by allowing all of your awareness to center in on your breath without judging it or trying to change it for now just notice it paying attention to how it feels as it enters and exits your body becoming curious about what muscles you are engaging as you breathe extending your awareness you noticing the feeling of gravity on your body using this awareness to drop into your body in this present moment and now on your next inhale allow your stomach to expand fully as you breathe in deeply rib cage expands and you hold your breath at the top and as it feels right to you exhale with a sigh at the bottom of this breath and just return to breathing at a pace that's comfortable for you stomach expanding as you breathe in and contracting as you breathe out throughout the course of this meditation you begin to see yourself standing on a trail before you the trail splits into five different pathways going from left to right we will number the trails as one through five trail one on your left shows you the version of you in the future that is as if you just stayed exactly the same as you are now you see that version of you smiling and waving at you much yourself become aware of that version this should be easy to do as they are exactly as you are right now you may even see them in the clothes you are wearing in this very moment  regardless of how much you desire change much yourself lovingly wave back at them feeling grateful that they are here  appreciating where you are right now and with that appreciation you allow your awareness to turn to Path number two here you see a version of yourself who has made one small alteration to their life what is this small change that they made perhaps it's a tiny change you've been thinking of doing  how does this change affect their life  how does it affect their appearance their personality or the successes that they have let yourself see this version of you clearly see them smiling and waving at you as you smile and wave back and now on path green the middle path the one directly before you you see a version of you who has made several small changes nothing too big but enough to make a difference on their life what do they look like what changes have they made  perhaps they've achieved goals that you've had in mind for a long time see them smiling and waving at you as you smile and wave back and now on the fourth path you see the version of you that has reached the goals and dreams you currently have notice how they feel and look it's as if you can sense the emotions but they are feeling the accomplishments they've achieved notice how that feels within you see them smiling and waving at you as you smile and wave back  and now as you turn your awareness to the right to path number five you see the version of you that's gone way above and beyond all the changes all the goals that you had in mind their success is way beyond anything you had yet imagined take a moment to see what that looks like what have they done what is their appearance like tune into how they feel and let yourself feel their emotions they smile and wave at you as you smile and wave back and as you look at all five of these versions of you while smiling and waving you know in your heart which path you desire to follow and you happily walk down the path towards the version of you you most desire to be right now see yourself standing before this version of you and as soon as you are face to face all the other paths just melt away it's just you and this desired version of you the person you most want to be look into their eyes  allow your heart to connect to their heart  tune into a confidence in their eyes there's a confidence and a wisdom of knowing who they are tune into your heart as it connects to theirs feel how it feels to be them what accomplishments have they achieved what material objects do they have how fulfilled are they in love and their financial life  and in terms of their physical health feel all of these aspects and imagine your body merging with theirs becoming who they are aligning fully with this desired version of yourself if this is what you desire yourself to be this is who you truly are take a deep breath into the snowing let your stomach fully expand and hold your breath at the top let the feeling of being this version of you build within Europe and as it feels right to you exhale with a sigh this is your birthright everywhere you go throughout the rest of the day remind yourself of this feeling feeling yourself aligned with the truest version of you your most desired version of you who you truly are and who you truly want to be and take this feeling with you everywhere you go as you slowly bring your awareness back to the room around you opening your eyes whenever you are ready  you  English (auto-generated)      
0 allow your body to get very relaxed whatever position most supports you to do this trust yourself and get into that position now  once you're ready softly close your eyes and begin to tune in to your breath and your body allowing your breath to slow down now and begin to become more intentional belly expanding on every in-breath and contracting on every out-breath  allowing the air to flow smoothly and  gently as you scan your awareness to find any muscles you're holding on to that you do not need right now  allow gravity to take over  only using the muscles that you need right now and letting all of the others relax  it is safe for you to allow your body to be heavy right now it is safe for you to relax  you now begin to receive an energetic massage as you feel the highest most loving energy entering in you may see this as white light but either way feel the love  it may feel like tingling massaging  peaceful sensations  relax and allow trust and know you are getting your body ready to do this magnificent work  this experience is for your highest most loving good  allow yourself to relax even more now  dropping down  letting go  and you begin to see yourself walking down a long dark corridor with a golden glowing light at the end this space you're walking through feels peaceful  and yet mysterious in a way that sparks your curiosity compelling you to continue to walk towards the golden light the closer you get the brighter it becomes until you step out of the corridor and enter in to bright golden glittering light  it's as if you are suspended in the center of this golden light  it's as if you are deep within your mind  take a couple more breaths relaxing in this space  and notice that all around you in a circle right now  appear your highest most loving guides some may be different versions of you or perhaps you just feel sense or see energy forms either way feel the love and support here  one of these guides reaches out their hand to give you a golden seed  you place this seed in the palms of your hands and gaze at it lovingly  in this seed you affirm the following thoughts ensuring the energy of these thoughts and feelings enters into the scene i am love i am fortunate all is well  spend a few more breaths infusing this scene with more loving thoughts that come to you now  and as you feel these thoughts allow yourself to be very aware of how the seed is being infused with the energy of these thoughts  me   allow yourself to wrap up your thoughts and notice how this seed is glittering in golden light  and imagine you are planting the scene in the center of your mind  covering it metaphorically with earth trusting whatever that looks or feels like to you  and more importantly feeling the seed being planted  feeling your energy transforming as it is and with this seed within you  and your highest most loving guides around you you affirm to yourself i am that i am  feel deeply appreciative to yourself for showing up for this practice appreciative for the changes that are to unfold from here  and when you're ready take a nice big deep breath in stomach and rib cage fully expanding holding your breath when you reach the top and when you're ready exhale with a sigh  begin to bring your awareness back to your body where it is right now  as your breath returns to whatever pace feels good to you you take this beautiful feeling you've created with you as you begin to roll your shoulders  wiggle your fingers and your toes and when you're ready open your eyes back to the world around you wonderful job today the more you return to this practice the more you replant these beautiful positive messages and energies within your subconscious continue to return to this practice time and time again for your highest most loving good thank you for being here dear love we're so grateful for the work you're doing that ripples out to the world around you sending so much love you  English (auto-generated)      
0 you in a few moments I'm going to count from ten down to one and with each and every number they count from ten to one each and every part of you every muscle every nerve and every fiber in your body will simply relax more and more so by the time that I get to one if not sooner you will feel like you've doubled this wonderful level of relaxation and this wonderful level of physical and this wonderful level of mental relaxation will then only grow and become stronger and stronger because one of the nicest things about relaxation is there isn't a basement of relaxation just when you may feel you have reached your basement of relaxation you can soon discover you can drift deeper and deeper now make yourself comfortable laying down or sitting in a chair I'd like you to close your eyes and start to relax so 10 and a wonderful feeling a wonderful wave of complete relaxation now washes over you every muscle and every nerve and every fiber in your body feeling and becoming more and more relaxed your mind feeling and becoming karma and karma 9 drifting deeper and deeper relaxed every breath you exhale helping you and guiding you to fill more and more calm more and more relaxed 8 and now the muscles in your body from the very top of your head down to the muscles in the tips of your toes every muscle in your body now relaxes more and more 7 and as the muscles in your body continue to relax more and more your mind becomes and fuels karma and karma and 6 and your mind and your body continue to feel more and more relaxed more and more calm five drifting deeper and deeper relaxed feeling and becoming karma and karma four and it truly feels good to relax to relax physically to relax mentally more and more as fall drifts into free and you drift even deeper relaxed karma and karma to feeling good knowing that you're relaxing feeling good knowing that every breath you exhale is helping and is guiding you to fill and be more and more relaxed more and more calm and one and from this moment on every breath you exhale just relaxes you more and more every breath you exhale helps and guide you to drift deeper and deeper relaxed and in a few moments I'm going to say the word relaxed and each and every time that I do and each and every time I say the word relax every muscle every nerve and every fiber in your body will simply feel and become more and more relaxed each and every time I say the word relax your mind will simply become karma and karma every time I say the word relax it will feel like a wonderful wave of relaxation simply washes over your entire body relax and a wonderful feeling of calmness a wonderful feeling of complete relaxation washes over you every muscle every nerve and every fiber in your body relaxing more and more and every time I say the word relax the feeling of complete relaxation this feeling of calmness grows stronger and stronger for you relax and a feeling of relaxation spreads from the top of your head down through the muscles in your neck it spreads down into your shoulders down towards your biceps down towards your forearms so the muscle was in your hands a feeling of relaxation spreads to the muscles in your fingers and that feeling of relaxation spreads down your chest down throughout the muscles in your back down through all the muscles in your stomach down through the muscles in your hips every part of you enjoying this wonderful wave of relaxation as it spreads further down your body down your legs to your knees your fire muscles the muscles in the back of your legs enjoying this wonderful feeling of relaxation as it spreads further down your body down to your ankles your calves completely relaxed as that feeling of relaxation continues down to your feet towards the very tip of your toes every muscle in your body more and more relaxed and feeling more and more calm every time I say the word relax you relax relax because it feels good it truly feels good to relax and from this moment on you're feeling and becoming more and more confidence each and every day and this wonderful suggestion this wonderful idea this wonderful belief of you becoming and you feeling more and more confident each and every day is now growing strong inside your mind this wonderful positive suggestion this wonderful positive idea and this wonderful belief that you're becoming that you're feeling more and more confident every single day is becoming more and more real for you each and every day you're truly feeling more confident each and every day you're becoming more and more confident and this is allowing you to do more things in your life as you become and as you feel more and more confident every single day it's giving you a wonderful freedom in your life a wonderful freedom to do new things a wonderful freedom just to be who you want to be without those unnecessary feelings of anxiety or worry the confidence to be who you want to be a wonderful strong positive confident person is now growing inside you so that you can now do what you want to do in your life in fact from this moment on it can fill for you like a weight it can feel like a burden has been lifted off your shoulders because with every single day that passes by every part of you feels more and more confident with every single day that passes by every single part of you is truly becoming more and more confident more confident in yourself more confident about the world around you more and more confident to do those things that you've always wanted to do the freedom the complete freedom in your life and your unconscious mind takes this suggestion your unconscious mind takes this idea of you becoming a more and more confident person every single day and your unconscious mind makes this confidence in you stronger and stronger more and more real for you and as you now continue to relax more and more with every breath as you continue to drift deeper and deeper into this wonderful relaxing state each and every one of these suggestions each and every one those positive ideas grow strong in your mind become more and more real for you not because I say so but because these suggestions are what you want in your life and because these are the wonderful positive suggestions that you want each and every one of these suggestions grow stronger for you and each and every one of these suggestions becomes much more real for you and as you relax more with every breath I would like you to imagine now or to think in your mind's eye just whatever works best for you imagine or think like you're stood in front of a full-length mirror as you imagine being stood in front of a full-length mirror as you imagine looking at the reflection of yourself you begin to notice a big difference because as you look at that reflection you're looking at somebody who truly feels extremely confident you're looking at somebody who's becoming and who is even feeling more and more confident every single day notice how that reflection is stood they are stood tall they are stood proud and you can tell just by the look of the reflection that this is somebody who is truly extremely confident this reflection has a wonderful freedom a wonderful freedom in their lives to do things to go places to be who they want to be and as you imagine looking into the eyes of that reflection that part of you who truly wants to feel and to be confident for some time begins to wonder begins to wonder what that reflection knows about being confident that you want to know and it's something you need to know so just imagine now all think in your mind's eye like you are stepping into that reflection was merging with that reflection and as you merge you with that reflection and as you become one with that reflection it does feel like a weight it does feel like a burden has been lifted off your shoulders and every part of you feels confident every part of you is confident every part of you now has a wonderful freedom a wonderful freedom to be who you want to be and every single day this newfound confidence grows and becomes even stronger this confidence becomes even more real to you every single day and each and every day this confident you this confident you shines through more and more just like a lighthouse shining brightly every single day this confident you shines through more and more every single day because every single day you're feeling and you're becoming more and more confident more and more confident every single day because from this moment on your thoughts your thoughts that you have on a day to day basis our confident thoughts each and every day you tell yourself positive things every single day you tell yourself that you are a confident person and will start to do that right now in a few moments I'm going to repeat a suggestion that suggestion will be a I am a confident person and when I say that suggestion all I like you to do inside your mind is to mentally say that to yourself say to yourself inside your mind I am a confident person because each and every time that you do that each and every time that you tell yourself and you are a confident person that belief that's idea that suggestion will only grow stronger and will even become more and more real for you so say to yourself now I am a confident person and again say to yourself with belief with conviction I am a confident person and again say to yourself I am a confident person again I am a confident person I am a confident person and each and every time that you tell yourself that your believe that you're a confident person grows even stronger every time you tell yourself that you're a confident person your belief that you're a confident person comes more and more real for you so again say to yourself I am a confident person I am a confident person I am a confident person and you truly are a confident person and every single day your confidence becomes more and more real for you every single day your confidence grows even stronger and begins to shine through more and more every single day you become and you simply feel more and more confident and from this moment on every time you smile each and every one of these suggestions grows stronger for you from this moment on every time you smile every one of these wonderful suggestions become more and more real for you from this moment on every time you smile your confidence grows and becomes more and more stronger I attract success into my life why use positive thinking and believes to manifest a positive life I have the power to create my own reality I attract into my life whatever I want my thoughts create my own reality I believe in the law of attraction I have the power to manifest my dreams I believe deeply that I could achieve anything I desire I am gaining control over my thought patterns I am manifesting my destiny I will transform my life using the law of attraction my powers of manifestation are growing the law of attraction is transforming my life each day my mind becomes more positive I am gaining control over my mind and my life I find it easy to control my faults manifesting seems effortless maintaining a positive state of mind is easy for me I steer my life in positive directions with the power of positive thinking manifesting my dreams into reality is something I just did naturally the law of attraction gives me the power to realize my dreams attracting success is a normal part of my life my life is filled with abundance my positive mindset attracts positive circumstances I find it easy to attract into my life whatever I need I I attract good luck into my life others see me as a very lucky person positive things always happen to me I always think positively I'm full of gratitude for all my good fortune I am the luckiest person alive I am naturally lucky good fortune always comes my way you I am thankful for the abundance in my life I am getting luckier I am noticing that I feel lucky all the time I always think positively I am becoming a very lucky person each day I attract more line I tried selling hits as someone who is very lucky with each day my luck is starting to flow in two ways lucky with English day I become modeling easier for all the luck good fortune in my life I just naturally will always be lucky all the time feeling lucky is becoming easy exciting opportunities are always coming my way I just naturally fills up on weight having legal time how lucky I am luck new and exciting opportunities of always coming my way I deserve to be lucky good things just always seem to come my way I am wealthy I always have money I attract financial abundance my mind is finely tuned for attracting massive wealth I always think positively about money I have many financial opportunities I always find a way to make a large profit I am rich and prosperous my life is full of abundance I am focused on achieving wealth I am becoming wealthier my bank account is always growing money will be flowing into my life I am finding it easier to infernally I will be financially successful I will attract wealth into my life positive thinking is beginning to attract money into my life I am a coming rich my positive attitude is beginning to attract large sums of money attractive money is easy my bank account never seems to stop growing I am highly focused on achieving financial success I fully believe in my ability to attract money you I have a money mindset money just always seems to come my way I am like a magnet to money I always succeed I attract success in all areas of my life I always think positively and achieve great things I am thankful for my many successes I have the will and drive to succeed my life is full of abundant success I am highly focused on success others see me as a very successful person I will attract success I will do whatever it takes to achieve my goals my belief in the law of attraction is growing stronger and stronger I will think positively and attract success in all areas of my life I am transforming into someone who consistently succeeds I am becoming a success magnet I deeply believe in my ability to attract success believing in myself and thinking positively are very important to me I am naturally healthy I am attracting health into my life I have a strong body my mind is healthy I always take my health seriously I always recover from illness quickly I eat healthily and exercise regularly my mind is completely focused on achieving optimal health I manifest abundant well-being with the power of positive thinking I am grateful for my perfect health I'm attracting half into my life with the law of attraction I am becoming healthier I will become healthy in mind and body I will always take my health seriously I am beginning to listen to my body and take the action necessary to heal it I am naturally healthy and strong thinking positively about my half comes easily to me I completely sense where my body needs rest and relaxation I attract opportunities I'm completely tuned in to the opportunities that surround me I always take advantage of a new opportunity my mind is focused on the fasting positive opportunities opportunity is here right now I am an opportunity magnet I will manifest new and exciting opportunities I am noticing evil expansion in my awareness of opportunities each day I grow my ability to attract opportunity I will seize every opportunity that comes my way I am naturally chained into all the opportunities of my life I naturally attract opportunity positive opportunities seem to be naturally attracted to me accion positive opportunities without hesitation comes naturally to me I am improving my visualization skills I am able to visualize in high detail I have total control over my visualizations sight sound taste and smell are all things I can easily visualize my mind is clear and focused on visualizing success my visualize positive change and manifested into reality I always visualize in maximum detail I use visualization to manifest a massive success I use the power of visualization to manifest the life I want I will improve my visualization skills I will shape my me Rd with intensely vivid visualization I am transforming my mind with the power of visualization I am beginning to effortlessly visualize the reality we wish to create my visualizations are becoming stronger and more powerful I will use visualization to reprogram my subconscious I have an attitude of gratitude my thoughts are focused on positivity and thankfulness I am sincerely grateful and this attracts positivity into my life I take time to be grateful for something as simple as a blue sky or the sound of laughter I am grateful for my family I am grateful for all my material possessions I am thankful for simply being alive my knife is full of so many things to be grateful for each morning I give thanks for another day of life I am grateful for the positive things that are still yet to come my way I am developing an attitude of gratitude I will be thankful for each day of my life I will always be thankful for whatever Life brings my way I just naturally have an attitude of gratitude I believe in the law of attraction the law of attraction works I have a deep certainty in my ability to use the law of attraction my subconscious is totally aligned with my conscious mind I attract that which I think about and believe I am strengthening my belief in the law of attraction my subconscious mind is completely focused on positive belief I am using the law of attraction to create my reality my belief in the law of attraction is unwavering I will believe politically in all the trash you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you  English (auto-generated)      
0 allow yourself to get into a comfortable position lovingly close your eyes if you have not already done so and turn your awareness inwards focus on your breath and your body dropping your awareness in towards your heart center in the middle of your chest and a couple of inches inwards feel your belly expand as you breathe in and release as you breathe out you are safe here in this moment all there is is this moment throughout the course of this meditation if at any point you find your mind wandering that's perfectly okay just return your attention to the words and music you're hearing as well as your breath and your body building a healthy mindset takes time and commitment but you were born to do this tune in to a sense of knowing within you that you are meant to have a healthy mindset towards life a part of you deep down knows that it is natural for you to have a healthy mindset take a deep breath into this stomach and rib cage fully expanding holding your breath at the top and when you're ready exhale with a sigh return to breathing at a pace that feels good to you really using your breath to be here in this moment there's a voice in your heart that always has a healthy mindset for you as you continually tune into the space in the middle of your chest you begin to tap in to an endless well of love here you imagine a silvery white light flowing out from your heart up into your mind and then flowing back down from your mind into your heart creating an infinity symbol as the light flows back and forth from your heart to your mind connecting at your throat feel the flow of energy here breathing in you feel the energy rising up from your heart to your mind breathing out you feel the energy flowing back down from your mind to your heart creating a swirling vortex of clean smooth clear energy the light from your heart washes away any stale stagnant energy uplifting radiating bringing the vibration of peace and love into your mind  unconditional universal love lives within you you can feel it in your heart regardless of how connected or not connected you have been to this love it is always there for you and when you tap in you recognize it can flow through not just in your heart but also in your mind the healthiest mindset is a mindset guided by unconditional love for yourself the world and a deep trusting and knowing that all is working out for you indeed all is working out for you you are safe you are loved  for now just tune in to the cycle of breathing seeing the silvery white light traveling from heart to mind and mind to heart creating that beautiful symbol of infinity crossing paths in the middle of your throat you may even feel a cleansing and opening in your throat as well just allow this flow to occur tuning into it loving it recognizing it is love  so the light grows so bright now it becomes a large open column encompassing you completely above your hand and below your toes this silvery white light extends out  encompassing you fully in unconditional love you feel your mind open and clear connected to unconditional love and just beyond this tube of white light you begin to see a ring of soft pink roses this ring of roses travels up and down this column of light only love may enter into your space and only love may exit out all possibilities that you most desire are possible for you your mind is open to creative solutions you recognize that you get to choose your mindset perhaps in the past you've put your faith in fear but moving forward you stay committed to placing your faith only in love the radiance of this decision glows from the inside out within you out into the world around you you choose the mindset of love  you put your faith in yourself for you are loved you put your faith in the world for the world is love you put your faith in love and this mindset radiates forth from you to the world around you creating a ripple effect out into the world take a deep breath in stomach and ribcage fully expanding holding your breath at the top feeling how good this feels and when you're ready exhale with a sigh you are where you're meant to be all is unfolding perfectly for you know this as you roll your shoulders wiggle your fingers and toes feel genuine appreciation for your beautiful mind your beautiful heart your beautiful soul and when you're ready slowly open your eyes back to the beautiful world around you you  English (auto-generated)      
0 begin by getting into a comfortable position whatever that looks like for you and once you feel ready lovingly close your eyes  begin to tune your attention inwards  focusing on your breath and your body tuning in to yourself tuning in to you affirming i am here i am me all is well and now take a nice big breath in stomach and rib cage fully expanding holding your breath at the top and when you're ready exhale with a sigh at the bottom of that breath repeat stomach and rib cage fully expanding holding your breath momentarily at the top and when you're ready exhale with a sigh whenever you reach the bottom do this one more time really making it count feeling yourself entering into this moment releasing with a sigh and then just returning to breathing at a pace that feels good to you  you begin to feel more centered in your body more connected to this moment the time is right for you to realize the truth you are love and you're capable of creating a world of love around you you control your future through your heart tune into this space in the middle of your chest and a couple of inches inwards feel the energy here expanding until it creates a sphere of heart light around you  take a moment feeling into this connect to your own heart's vibration it is all love powerful and wise as you connect to this feeling you recognize there's nothing you need externally the path to a bright future begins within through your heart you see before you now several pathways as if you're in the woods facing many winding dirt trails it's a very peaceful forest you feel the sun shining down on you and you are still surrounded by your heart light only love may enter in and only love may exit out you are connected to your heart's power source to your power source the powerful energy of your heart emanates from you the more you become aware of it the more you feel it the more you tap into it the more you recognize it is deeply wise deeply knowing and powerful before we explore this forest tap in more deeply to this heart light that's around you do you see a color or perhaps multiple colors does it shimmer is it prismatic what do you notice trust yourself even if for now you just get an inkling of a sensation that is enough whatever you're experiencing right now is perfect for you and know that the more you do this the stronger your connection becomes spend just a couple more breaths connecting to this  the more connected you are the more you know it doesn't matter what path you take they will all lead to love for when you let love lead the way in your heart it automatically leads you to more love this love is grounded secure and stable it is not flighty nor fickle it is steadfast it is faithful to you your heart light knows that you cannot get it wrong that you are always exactly where you're meant to be that you are a beacon of love and therefore a magnet for more experiences and to feel loving joyous freeing as you tune into this knowing that you can't get it wrong and that it's safe to trust your heart light your inner guidance your own energy and faith that love is all around you love is within you from here the path you most want to take lights up before you what color is the path lighting up as are there any fun woodland creatures any cool plants down that path trust what you sense see or feel and begin to joyously begin down the path as you do your heart light expands it grows throughout the forest lighting up every path  for indeed whatever path you walk on with your heart light as your guide will always be bright the path you're on opens up into a wide open field you begin to feel yourself very much like a small child feeling free to play to enjoy yourself you recall that feeling of what it was like to be a child carefree  innocent and you recognize you can be that way now you can trust in life you can trust in your bright future you are free to play and be yourself surrounded by love guided by love it's safe to be you now is the time to let go let go of external suggestions of what you should do or be and drop in to that child like you with your beautiful heart light leading the way as you walk down any path your heart guides you to take as all paths that you follow from your heart will always lead to a bright future indeed dear love your future is most bright take a deep breath into this knowing hold your breath at the top feel grateful to yourself for feeling this and when you already exhale with a sigh  return to this anytime you need to reconnect with your heart light and that trusting knowing sensation that you're on the right path and the future in front of you is indeed very bright when you're ready come out of this by slowly rolling your shoulders wiggle your fingers and toes and take your time as you slowly open your eyes back to the world around you we're so happy you're here and we're so excited for your bright future have a wonderful rest of your day  English (auto-generated)      
0 the following meditation is taken from peace like a river seven christian meditations on god's glorious peace available now at numa breath dot com pneuma breath connecting you with god  how great is our lord who saves us who desires us let us begin this session with prayer we honor you father glorious king of all things we declare we love you we desire you and we love you because you first loved us may you have your way with this session and with our lives in jesus name let's begin our breathing deep breath slow exhale deep breath slow exhale deep breath slow exhale now on your own breathe as you desire i believe the lord wants us to fully consecrate ourselves to him romans 12 1 says i beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of god that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy acceptable unto god which is your reasonable service we are going to set apart every part of our body today beginning with our feet as you sit there or stand with your eyes closed begin to visualize your feet begin to focus on your feet sensations your feet are feeling how the ground feels under your feet just take in every little sense associated with your feet as you breathe in a relaxed manner let us now consecrate our feed for the lord's service you can say lord jesus i give my feet to you i give them for your service and your pleasure have your way with them now begin to visualize jesus coming to you and washing your feet like he did to his 12 disciples at the last supper begin to see him washing your feet preparing them for his service and for his glory let us move on now to the hands you can lift your hands up about chest high now begin to visualize your hands hone in on every sense every finger how your hands feel the air touching the outside of your hands maybe blood flowing in and out of your fingers take some time now to really focus on your hands i want you now to visualize your hands being laid upon an elderly individual and i want you to say lord i give my hands for your service have your way with them and now begin to see life virtue power from jesus flowing from you through your hands into that elderly individual go ahead and do that right now now see that old individual begin to turn young because of that virtue coming forth through you and say thank you lord that where my hands go life goes because of you go ahead very good now the heart i want you to put your hand on your heart and begin to see your heart visualize your heart does your heart feel like what sensations does your heart give go ahead in a nice relaxing breathing way begin to look at your heart now begin to examine your heart what state is your heart how do you feel in your relationship to god concerning your heart take some time now to examine your heart i want you now to visualize the lord jesus placing his hands on your heart and imparting life and light to your heart and as he's doing so tell him my heart belongs to you i give my heart to you lord go ahead how about we take some time now and just thank him you can lift your hands up to heaven if you like you can speak audibly or inwardly but how about we just thank him for everything he's done so far thank you jesus thank you lord thank you lord let's move now to your mind to your head and let's first consecrate our thoughts to the lord i would like you now to place your hand on your forehead maybe your whole hand or a few fingers and just begin to say thoughts come into alignment with the kingdom of god thoughts come into alignment with jesus christ now just begin to visualize all your thoughts all the noise the ideas the concerns the worries the memories and just visualize them swirling all together and then coming into the hand of jesus right into his right hand go ahead the bible says be transformed by the renewing of your mind and bringing all thoughts into captivity to the obedience of jesus christ this is a continuous discipline giving our thoughts to him bringing our mind into alignment with him allow me now just to bless your mind and your thoughts father i thank you now for whoever is listening or reading come now and bless their mind lord i bless their mind and i say thoughts be subject to jesus christ anxious thoughts be put away past memories and future concerns that are out of order be put away be bound in jesus name now let's go to your eyes with your eyes closed i want you to visualize jesus coming to you by faith and laying his hands upon your eyes i like you to say lord allow my eyes to see you allow my eyes to see you lord in everything now just watch him touch in your eyes and feel the feelings that he brings what do you feel he is doing what do you feel he wants your eyes to see maybe scales are falling off maybe you can see him clear let's take a little bit more time and allow the lord to touch your eyes let us see now thank you lord for giving me eyes to see may my eyes be used for your glory let's move now to the nose why the nose smell is important otherwise god would not have given us the sense of smell the bible speaks about a fragrance of life i want us now to consecrate our very noses for the lord's use as funny as that may sound go ahead and consecrate your nose to the lord i would like you now to visualize the lord in his glory and begin to breathe through your nostrils nice and slowly but by faith visualize breathing in the fragrance of jesus christ the king go ahead what are you feeling what are you experiencing some of you may actually smell something others may feel the smell of his glory regardless smell is something the lord has made for us to have and it can be given to him for his glory let us now say lord my nose for your glory my nose for your glory thank you lord let us now move to the ears the bible says he that has ears let him hear what the spirit says to the churches let us now give our ears to the lord you can place your hands on your ears and you can say these words lord i give you my ears for your glory my ability to hear for your glory go ahead i believe the lord would like you to know that this is an important one they're all important but i believe there is an emphasis on the ability to hear from him so now i want you now with your eyes closed to visualize the lord breathing upon your ears breathing away the dust breathing away the coldness just see him breathing upon your ears even now clearing the way so that you may hear his voice go ahead visualize by faith the lord blowing on your ears i feel glad to pray for your ears right now lord for whoever is listening or reading right now i bless their ears ears i speak to you be opened to the voice of the good shepherd be opened to the spirit of christ to the spirit of god now in jesus name i want you now to visualize your ears being opened greater and greater openings to the voice of god by faith go ahead and visualize that please thank you lord our ears for your glory let us move now to the mouth with the tongue we can curse men or we can bless so much power in words let us now just put our hands maybe one hand right on the mouth just begin to say my mouth for the lord my mouth for the lord to speak blessing and not cursing to bless men and not to damn i would like you now to tilt your head back just a bit just gently open up your mouth a little bit visualize the lord pouring into your mouth pure holy clean water as if he's pouring a pitcher clay pitcher of the most beautiful hero water from heaven right into your mouth go ahead thank you lord you can begin to clap your hands and just thank him and in your own words just begin to say lord my whole being consecrated to you for your service any words you want to say from your own heart your own mouth just begin to say my being for your glory my life for your service go ahead in closing allow me to speak a blessing upon you father thank you for how good you are we we're simply children trying to pursue you daddy lord i speak blessing right now upon my brother or my sister and i declare life and just fullness of joy o album he blessed them by the power of your wonderful holy spirit and may they grow closer to you in these days to come closer and closer and closer in jesus mighty name amen we hope you enjoyed this meditation from peace like a river seven christian meditations on god's glorious peace now available at pneumabreath.com we do enjoy hearing from you so if you would like please leave a comment below of how the lord has touched you with this meditation may his grace ever be upon you in jesus  name
0 creating a new you this meditation is designed to help you create a new personality so that you can create a new reality it is based on the teachings of dr. Joe Dispenza and it can help you gain clarity over your intentions over what you want to achieve in your life your state of beingness your emotional state your energy state and can help you accelerate towards your intentions and goals while feeling better and better about yourself about your life in your health in your capacity to receive abundance and to receive all of the life success that you want and deserve so begin by finding a comfortable place where you can sit and relax  [Laughter] if sitting is not comfortable for you at this point you can lay down with the intention of maintaining your awareness not falling asleep being present and aware closing your eyes relaxing letting go focusing on your breath slowing it down feeling the stress the tension in your muscles completely release as you focus on the breath and lengthen it slow it down settling your body down letting go of any thoughts any feeling sensation that is not serving you in the present moment anything that reminds you of the past of who you believe yourself to be  as you relax more and more and release more and more of the attention on the physical mental emotional and energetic level of your being experienced yourself expanding into space  and bringing your awareness at the back of your heart focus at the back of your heart and experience yourself expanding  as you relax more and more as your heart opens more and more everything softens your face your neck your shoulders your chest your belly your entire body becomes soft and gentle and expanded  and you connect to these feeling of softness of gentleness of openness  now from this space of relaxation from this state of expansion take a moment to think about who you want to be asking yourself what would it feel like to be healthy to be happy to be successful to have abundance asking any question that is relevant to the experience that you want to have and connecting to the feelings to the sensations what would it feel like  maybe you begin to visualize not shoot yourself and bring it into the present moment experiencing the feelings and emotions of that vision of yourself the intention you have for yourself to be to act to feel to think in whichever way you choose to if you feel resistance if you feel a little tension in your body if some thoughts that are not in alignment with that vision come up simply allow them to come up without focusing on them letting them come in and dissolve without pressure without distracting away from them simply not feeding any energy in that direction letting them process out realizing that they are a result of the past of your past experiences memories recordings from the past that are simply coming to the surface to be released  refocus yourself refocus your attention your energy on who you want to be and what that would feel like how would you spend your days what would your relationships be like what would you do with your time and most importantly how would you feel  what does it feel like to be your future self connect to your five senses what you see what you smell what you hear what you sense sense of touch feeling engaging all five senses in this multi-dimensional experience who are you how do you walk how do you feel in your body how does it feel to be in your body as the person you want to be what does it feel like  connect deeper to the feelings and emotions that you are wanting to feel from being that person do you feel loved do you feel appreciated do you feel understood cared for do you feel seen hurt validated valued supported safe connect to all of these feelings connect to how you feel when you feel these things how does it feel to be in your body when you feel these things are you calm  are you peaceful are you fulfilled continue connecting to your emotional states your emotional self being the person you want to be thinking acting feeling exactly what you want to think do and feel opening yourself up to receiving this experience to being in this emotional state experiencing yourself as one no longer separate from the experience no longer separate from the emotions  merging with your future self  bringing the future into the present moment by merging the state of emotion  cultivating this state of emotion allowing yourself to be in it to really feel what it will feel like to be the person you want to be to feel the things you want to feel  and let the feelings that the energy sink in your body changing the way you feel about yourself changing how the space of your body feel maybe you feel some expansion some softening at the level of your heart some openness  clarity of mind a vision of yourself as you want to be maybe you see images about your future life then you connect to how you feel about these images about that future life that you're bringing into the present moment that you're connecting to  bridging the gap between the present and the future  actualizing the future into the present moment seeing yourself thinking doing feeling what you want to think do and feel dissolving any idea and he believed any fear any thought an emotion that comes from the past that is not what you want to be how you want to behave and what you want to feel  dissolving the old you the old self and from the present moment from that state of deep inner presence creating creating the new you who you truly want to be how you truly want to feel and the thoughts you want to cultivate about yourself your life your relationships all of your relationships to time to money to others to yourself to your health  feeling this sense of deep inner peace calm in your heart joy  generating creative energy for your life for the next steps to unfold for you to know when where and how to be from moment to moment without having to force it being in the flow of life in the flow of love  feeling yourself no longer separate from the flow feeling yourself no longer separate from others from who you want to be feeling grateful appreciative for this experience feeling appreciative for yourself for your commitment to yourself to change transformation  trusting having faith choosing choosing to recreate yourself in the present moment free from the past free from habits programs patterns continuously coming back to the present moment and recreating yourself as you want to be your thoughts your choices your behaviors your feelings your emotions all aligned with who you want to be and new you the new personality once you're deeply connected with these feelings and emotions and you've brought them into your body feeling what it feels like to be this new you anchoring that into your being anchoring that in your body right now ready to start your day to move into your environment into your life being this new you gently deepening your breath wiggling your fingers on your toes holding the feeling holding that vibration that energy state and gently opening your eyes   English (auto-generated)      
0 allow yourself this time to find a comforting  balance and centeredness within yourself find a comfortable spot where you can  bring focus and attention for this time begin by breathing gently in and out as you start to take notice  of your pattern of breathing just allow your arms and legs to release any  tension let gravity pull them gently downward continue to feel that gentle breath in and out   and again bring your focus and attention to it your chest moving up and down slowly and comfortably and on your next breath as you breathe out just let  your limbs relax even further releasing any of that remaining tension during this time you may become  especially aware of your senses.   the feeling of the surfaces you're touching  against the amount of light in the room you may hear detailed sounds that may have  otherwise gone unnoticed and all of these are fine just allow yourself to experience  these and accept them without judgment just take that time to find the  centered feeling of the present moment as you become increasingly  aware and increasingly centered you will become open to contemplate our  topic of focus for today being the boundless finding acceptance and being your best self What does it mean to become the boundless? It  means to unlock what we already have within us   it is to find acceptance within  ourself and with our surroundings   and ultimately it is to make way  for our best self to shine through. we will now do five short affirmations or  short phrases which you can repeat after me   either out loud or in your head and then we'll  take a moment of silent contemplation to reflect   let's try this now repeating after me and  allowing yourself to become more and more present   here in this moment as we count Five: I welcome this moment Four: I become present Three: I open my heart and mind Two: becoming my best self One: becoming the boundless when we talk about being present, it does not mean  that we cannot actively learn from our past and   future it means that we avoid the unconscious  clutter and noise that fogs our true path looking forward actually means being present  but with a purpose just as when we are walking   we understand that each foot is placed one in  front of the other with a clarity of purpose   of being successful through that clarity of mind  cutting through the noise of our unconscious mind. And so, with these ideas present we once again  count using our affirmations starting now. Five: I welcome this moment Four: I become present Three: I open my heart and mind Two: Becoming my best self One: Becoming the boundless Great! Now as you go forth embrace  these ideas to anchor yourself in the   present while learning from your past and  looking ahead into the future with purpose. you understand how failure is a teaching tool and  how we must learn from it yet also let them go you understand how to embody success to  clarify your goals and connect deeply   both within yourself and others  and you understand what it means   to be the boundless to become your  best self and lastly going forward   we remind ourselves to be grateful for  the earth for good fortune for good deeds we take all of this with us as we move  forward into the days and weeks to follow And so, counting one last time  with numbers only we prepare   to finish this session and continue forward with  a powerful new mindset becoming the boundless becoming the boundless counting five four three two one  English      
0 your mindset and beliefs are some of the most powerful tools available for healing more powerful than any man-made medication available positive thoughts can have a positive effect on your body today harness your own energy and develop the self-healing ability that you are born with with this meditation to start your day fill your mind with profoundly healing thoughts to encourage amazing health and vitality  balance the energy in your body to overcome emotional and even physical issues by setting off a powerful healing response know that all healing is self-healing and by using this practice regularly you can implement powerful healing within you for an extremely profound experience pair this with the sleep meditation for self-healing at night which i will link in the description below  welcome to the mindful movement i'm sarah raymond here we are an oasis where you can come to tap into your inner peace positive mindset and the ability for self-healing and now i invite you to make yourself comfortable the feeling of safety is extremely important for this process so take a moment to create a safe and tranquil environment for yourself settle in to an easy effortless posture  close your eyes and allow my voice to be your guide into a profoundly healing relaxation my voice can continue to go with you on your healing journey even after this practice has concluded as you begin to shift into a relaxed meditative state become aware of your breath notice your breath as it is right now sense where your breath travels inside your body  and notice any subtle movements that come with each breath cycle let the noticing of your breath bring you into presence and soften your outer layer stay with the natural rhythm and sensations of your breath to collect yourself  make a shift now to more intentionally deep breathing take a deep inhale through your nose hold it for a moment  and then exhale fully each time you inhale inhale with an intention to honor your body  this is an act of self-care and self-healing the simple act of intentional breath is taking you on the path to healing  you are offering your body the oxygen it needs for all its many functions be grateful for your ability to take care of yourself  be grateful for the choice you have made for healing with each full exhale let your entire body relax let your body sink into the surface below you release all negative thoughts  as you exhale release all fears release all feelings of anxiety all worries each breath in is full and deep and fills you up with a building positive energy each breath out is cleansing and releases tension pain and negativity  each breath out allows you to let go of anything you no longer need any energy you want to let go of invite one more deep breath breathing in positive energy and breathing out anything you would like to let go of since a cleansing of negative unwanted energy to make space for positive energy and a healing mindset to build within you  allow your breath pattern to normalize  notice how relaxed and calm you have become as your nervous system continues to shift towards a more parasympathetic state you have a greater healing potential remember your body has all the tools it needs to heal itself relaxing your body allows it to recognize what areas need attention so it can bring energy to what is needed as you continue to relax and set off this powerful healing ability bring your awareness to how you are feeling right now simply check in with curiosity to notice your present moment physical state without judgment welcome anything and everything that you are feeling and perhaps take a moment to thank your body for its ability to feel be with the actual experience of your body and let go of your resistance to this experience  notice any areas in your body where you may be holding on to tension or tightness and invite a sense of ease to wash over you what would it be like to relax your posture to find more ease what would it feel like to let go in any way that brings you deeper into comfort are there any areas that you can relax further let gravity settle over you there is no need to hold against it anymore no need to carry the weight of the world on your shoulders any longer maybe you sense a shift as you allow your body to sink down into the surface beneath you now is your time to be fully supported and allow healing to occur invite your attention now to move slowly over your physical sensations begin at the top of your head and scan your body's sensations from the inside with a flowing attention all the way down to the soles of your feet as your attention moves from one part of your body to another  pause and linger on any areas that seem to be asking for your attention give each of these sensations the focus that it is needing now as you continue to scan your body begin to pay attention to what feels good to you  allow your awareness to travel to these areas of well-being  allowing the expansion of this quality continue to ask yourself what feels good in your body where do the positive areas in your body lie and encourage the good to expand to move outward to other areas of your body sense your ability to build on the positive energy from within what would it feel like in your body to experience this building positive energy what would it be like for you to experience a feeling of love and kindness for your body right now breathe this in stay with the good stay with the sensations for a little longer and continue to build on these sensations of ease of softness of peace that are within you  send gratitude and love to each and every part of your beautiful body heart and soul  now that you are relaxed open and attentive to the positive energy within invite healing into your body and into your mind  let the cells in your body know your healing intentions create space for your body's inner wisdom to do its work this does not require effort on your part there is no active work to be done simply allow a restful opening a willingness like a blooming flower opening to something new you need only to allow space for your cells to listen to each other allow yourselves to coordinate and cooperate with each other this process creates a sensation a sense of knowing things are okay healing is a sense of coming home a sense of belonging the more you practice and remind yourself of this ability to heal the more room this truth has to grow from within as this truth of well-being grows from within it can rise to the surface and be manifested in your physical body as you practice in this present moment every cell in your body is listening they are aligning with each other and with your positive thoughts allow a gentle smile to wash over you acknowledging the work being done and the gratitude you hold for your ability to practice for your ability to heal yourself  it's as if every cell in your body is glazing over with a sense of contentment every cell has its own soft smile an inner sense of well-being is beginning to cultivate from deep within well-being is your natural state it is where you want to be now call to mind an image that represents health and complete well-being this image represents health vitality pain-free living a new fully healthy experience this image can be your body itself it can be an object you associate with health or it can be as simple as a color as this image comes into focus offer this image compassion send it love   what would the concept of health and well-being look like how would it feel what would it be like to allow yourself to have this pain-free life this vitality and health and now feel this in the present moment as if it is true for you right now in your body and in your soul what would it be like to love yourself enough to know wholeheartedly that you deserve this healthy experience can you love yourself enough to know that you deserve this vitality this new image of well-being is alive it seems to radiate love and light it has a growing presence this health is felt throughout your entire body it is invigorating you can feel it so clearly  this is the beginning of a new experience a profound healing transformation your nervous system is inviting it in it feels just right remaining relaxed immerse yourself in this sense of well-being for a moment longer  take another deep healing breath connect with the healing and vitality within yourself feel this powerful healing energy rush throughout your body  feel a shift has taken place today know in your heart you have taken time to care for yourself you have begun a new path today as you have connected to your innate healing power allow your awareness to broaden once more become aware of the space around you  the air the room the surface beneath you bring some gentle movements to your body and when you feel ready open your eyes take a deep breath continue this practice regularly for profound improvements in how you're feeling i hope you have a healthy and peaceful day  thank you for practicing with me today  English (auto-generated)      
0 welcome back for another guided meditation at this time choose a position that is most comfortable for you whether it be seated or laying on the floor allow your body to relax in this moment beginning by taking deep inhale and exhaling fully and as you inhale inhale love light and joy  and as you exhale release any worries tension or fears  soften the lines around your eyebrows your cheeks and your jawline allow your tongue to separate from the roof of your mouth  having her shoulders fall away from years  your chest to be high-bred your breaths are now able to enter and exit fully  palms facing upward allowing for acceptance and abundance into your life  your Sitz bones feeling connected and if you lay on the floor allow your feet to fall to the sides feeling grounded safe and secure  and as you inhale this time breathe into those areas and hold the most tension and when you exhale release it  breathe into those areas a few more times feeling more relaxed and centered and grounded in this bond  allow your breath to return to its natural rhythm continuing to breathe in love might enjoy  and release the worries tension and fear  personal growth is the ongoing process of understanding and developing oneself the achievement of once fulfill his potential personal development is a vital part in a person's growth maturity success and happiness  it is the foundation of emotional physical intellectual and spiritual health  personal growth has a profound effect on every single aspect of our life as we grow on a personal level we begin to feel more passionate about life in general  we are naturally more motivated because the learning and growing and motivation and a sense of excitement working on personal growth can be easy and starts with the smallest of choices choose to do something kind for yourself and someone else notice the shift in energy after doing any of the following activities listening to music opening a door for someone I arrived  focus on your breath  take a look  say thank you  declutter your space  choose positive media make healthier choices and one in judgment ask yourself is it possible and consider at least three reasons or scenarios that will broaden your perspective  we all have the choice to grow but it is a choice  allow your body to enter a state of awareness by keeping your eyes closed for a moment and bringing life back to your hands shoulders and other parts of your body  I closed today's meditation with hopes that you allow for growth and acceptance in your mind body and maybe well maybe happy may you be loved and to me you be at peace the divine in me Bath's to the divine in you  take your time awakening your body  enjoy the space and rink of mean your day when you're ready   English (auto-generated)       7:29 NOW PLAYING    
0 good morning and welcome to your practice i'm sarah raymond from the mindful movement and i am truly honored you have chosen to allow me to be your guide this meditation is designed to empower you if you are feeling stuck overwhelmed and anxious and if you are motivated for change yet feeling limited by your beliefs today is a new day and a new opportunity to gain clarity in a time of personal growth i invite you to make yourself comfortable choose a relaxed seated posture with your spine upright if possible  perhaps on a cushion on the floor a chair against a wall or on a couch close your eyes if you'd like or simply soften your gaze start to shift side to side gently in your seat feel the movement of your attention from one side to another move this shifting upward to your waist then see if you are able to move the wiggle up to your ribs  and then shoulders then maybe even a small movement side to side at the height of your neck and then your head take a deep breath in through your nose then let out an audible sigh exhale as you settle into stillness become aware of the feels in your body the sensations perhaps you sense a buzzing or tingling as the energy from your movement continues yet your physical body becomes still as if there is a momentum within you that takes a few moments too slow take another few deep breaths at your own pace continuing to settle  inhale through your nose and let out an audible exhale a sigh or ha sound or perhaps make a humming noise on your exhale  noise creates vibration in your throat and it is effective to help you relax and regulate your nervous system  after a few cycles let your breath return to its effortless rhythm invite a softening of your outer layer to wash over you perhaps you might imagine the removal of armor put there to protect you yet here you are safe it is okay to let go of this armor for a bit or consider what it might feel like to blur your edges as if a camera lens is changing focus you are still you you are safe you are simply letting go of the rough hard edges as you continue to relax and soften in your mind visualize a doorway or an entrance of sorts this can be a doorway you have been to before or one that exists only in your mind  this may show up as a memory or as if it is a picture in your mind  if nothing specific comes to mind simply use the idea of a door this door represents your opportunity to grow to move forward to make the change in your life that you desire this is the metaphorical threshold you may be having trouble crossing in your own life perhaps something related to business a relationship your home life a creative endeavor  as this image becomes clearer in your mind you can also see yourself in front of this doorway  as you witness yourself standing in front of the door that you know leads you to the next step in your life you see that you are holding many items in both of your hands it becomes clear that you cannot open this door unless you are willing to put some things down breathe slowly and continue to relax and connect with the feeling that you are safe these items you are holding represent any and all beliefs obstacles or responsibilities that are holding you back knowing that you must let go  in order to open this door consider what needs to be laid down breathe in and exhale letting go letting go letting go as you let go sense the weight being lifted the lightness wash over you consider these questions to help you let go what is no longer serving you  what is standing in your way is there a story you have been telling yourself that is holding you back from the change you desire the answers to these questions may show up for you now or sometime in the future be open be  curious now is the time to let go of anything that may be holding you back from making a change you desire  let go of any negative beliefs you may have about yourself visualize yourself putting down the limiting beliefs so they can no longer hold you back and now consider what is a new belief about yourself that would serve you  better you have put down any negative beliefs or anything holding you back you have freed your hands to be able to open the door now you have made room for new positive powerful beliefs to surface that will support you as you move through this door things may not feel aligned with the life of your dreams right now and that's okay today you begin to move towards what you want  know that all you desire is available to you because you are absolutely good enough you are worthy you deserve love success health financial freedom and all that you desire  hear these words again  feel them in your heart as true you are enough you are worthy you deserve all that you desire  now that you have laid down what is holding you back you can open the door you can move through the threshold into the next phase the next step see yourself moving through the doorway and look back at all that you have laid down perhaps you recognize that now you are open to receive new clear thoughts and ideas about your path  you are open to experience clarity you begin to notice how new ideas begin to present themselves to you and now let the visualization go and bring your awareness back to your felt sensations once more take a moment to ground yourself after this visualization and feel the weight of your body a strong anchoring connection with the surface below you become rooted in this present moment fully allow your breath to create ease in your body and ease in your mind to open to clarity to show itself from within you  as you breathe sense the feeling of clarity breathe in a state of calmness and ease the clarity you desire is within you simply bring your focus inward  cultivate simplicity and focus of the mind to experience clarity may you move through the doorway with ease and experience all that you desire while remaining grounded in presence when you feel ready open your eyes if you feel called to do so you can benefit from taking pen to paper and writing about what came up for you during this practice for your reference as your writing i have included the questions from this meditation in the description box below thank you for practicing with me today i hope you have a wonderful day  English (auto-generated)      
0 welcome to today's gratitude meditation today we are going to spend some time appreciating the little things in life a comfortable position with eyes closed breathe deeply and just be here for a moment  feel the rise and the fall of your chest as you breathe feel where your body meets the surface that you rest on feel the faint beating of your heart and understand that all of this is something to be grateful for you are breathing you are persevering and you are taking the time out of your day to recognize the small joys in life practicing gratitude is essential so many times in this world we are told to ask for more strive for more be more but truthfully we have all that we need within ourselves breathe deeply and be here with this idea take a moment now to think of anything that has made you smile recently it could be a meal a funny joke that brightened your day or even a smile from a stranger take note of how this thought feels in your body how the joy feels in your body from the top of your head all the way down to the bottom of your body take a moment now to think of any being that has made you smile recently it could be a friend a lover an animal companion or even a stranger take note of how this feels in your body to think of this being how the joy feels in your body give thanks to this being your deepest appreciation and feel the gratitude spread outside of your body and into the air around you send your joy and your love out to all that surrounds you to your community to the world gratitude is like a seed it needs water and care and when we practice gratitude frequently we water the seed we bloom come back to your body now connecting again with the gentle rise and fall of your chest feeling the air entering your lungs and exiting your body feeling where your body is in space  you can move about in any way that feels good gently coming back to this moment in this space and whenever you are ready slowly open your eyes thank you for joining me today i am grateful that you did  English (auto-generated)      
0 welcome to this meditation for spiritual development i'm so happy you're here you're in the right place let yourself get into a nice comfortable position whatever that looks like for you place your hands on your heart and lovingly close your eyes  as you tune into your breath you also direct your attention to the space in the middle of your chest and a couple of inches inwards your hearts energy center spend a moment settling into your body connecting to your breath and that beautiful heart of yours that heart of yours is more than just the physical and you feel a deep and annoying within you right now of that truth within your heart the core of your being  you may access the eternal limitless formless being  we really are  tap into this non-physical form of you that's all-knowing all powerful how loving and if it helps you sense a name for this non-physical form of yours if not you can just call it me trust whatever feels right to you you may let your hands drop down to your sides if that feels good to you or keep them on your heart whatever feels best either way the goal now is to set the intention to truly connect deeply  completely as completely as possible to that non-physical form of you you may begin to sense energy vibrating around and within you you may begin to see patterns of waves and light trust whatever is happening to you whatever's happening with you from you as you tap into the deeper truth of who you are you spend a few breaths relaxing into this connection feeling yourself merging  becoming one and now as you feel this oneness with your source it's as if you are floating on a raft down a smooth flowing river you may feel the sun shining on your face as if your hands are behind your head and you get this sense that you trust in the unfolding of life that you know you are on the right path of your spiritual development but you're in good hands with your soul you can let go and enjoy the peaceful ride you say to yourself i trust in my soul tune into how that feels there's no need for you to use oars or paddles on this raft you feel it's flowing in divine timing  it's navigating the waters perfectly  so too are you through your physical form navigating your physical life through your connection to the non-physical greater aspect of you you let go of attachment to outcome  you let your connection to your heart and that deep eternal all-knowing aspect of you you let that be enough right now  letting go of everything else you make all that matters in this moment your connection to the divine your connection to you as a divine being you may feel deep gratitude for this  you feel the love of your eternal being wrapping around you flowing through you you feel a deep power within you that's all loving all wise and you feel deep acceptance accepting yourself fully as you are where you are and you know for whatever reason it's perfect right now you are perfect you're on your own perfect path of spiritual development and perfect timing perfect order relax into this truth you open up and ask yourself that eternal you what will you have me know about my own spiritual development trust what you receive  you are more powerful than you know but in this moment you start to acutely know you start to really feel that power it's divine it's gentle natural you are a creator of miracles you are a miracle carry this truth with you with deep gratitude in your heart knowing you're on the right path your spiritual development is happening all in perfect timing  begin to really connect your physical form feeling gravity wiggling your fingers and toes rolling your shoulders and taking your time as you open your eyes back to the beautiful world around you wonderful job today  you
0 Welcome to Soothing Pod’s meditation.   In today’s meditation, we will be  exploring the power of vulnerability,   opening the heart lovingly to both  ourselves and to this innate human quality. To begin, bring yourself to a seated  position that is secure and comfortable. Close the eyes and allow   the muscles around them to soften… … and then check in with your posture. Ensure that the neck and the rest  of the spine form one straight line,   and then allow the shoulders to relax. Soften the stomach as you become  more attuned to your breath,   allowing it to flow as deep as is  comfortable for you in this moment. Now, take a moment to tune into any thoughts or  stories that may be trickling through the mind. They may be strong, heavy, and stubborn… … or they may be soft, gentle, and fleeting. Whatever the mind’s contents feel  like in this moment, see if you can   open your heart lovingly to whatever is here… … and then soften as you return to your direct felt experience in this moment. Notice the earth beneath you or the surface  supporting you… and notice any physical   sensations that may be present within. If anything uncomfortable is present, invite a loving, compassionate  breath into each of these areas. Take a few more moments of quiet space  now, just witnessing whatever is here   as you continually re-ground  yourself through the breath. What does it mean to be vulnerable? To be vulnerable is to be raw, honest,   and open; it is to be capable of loss,  hurt, and pain. It is to be fully human. Many of us hide our vulnerabilities, denying  wounds and avoiding failure, because they   hold much shame, guilt, and judgment. In a world  that often fails to go deep (or fears doing so),   vulnerabilities are seen as weakness – and  weakness is seen as something negative. However, if we open ourselves to the  possibility of being truly vulnerable,   we come into contact with its power. Because, despite any misconceptions we might hold about it, vulnerability is where our humanity shines through; and through it, we grow, evolve, and find strength. In the words of Brené Brown, “Vulnerability is the birthplace of  innovation, creativity, and change.” When we allow ourselves to be vulnerable, we  learn more about who we are as individuals   and as humans; understandings that  propel us forward for positive growth. Brown also explains, “Embracing  our vulnerabilities is risky   but not nearly as dangerous as giving up on love   and belonging and joy – the experiences  that make us the most vulnerable.” Her words are an invitation for us to  honour and acknowledge our vulnerabilities.   As each of us is human, each of us  is vulnerable in a variety of ways. As we open ourselves up honestly and  authentically with healthy boundaries in place,   we deepen our understanding of  ourselves and our connection to others.   And, as we practice this authentic opening,  we invite others to do the same with us. Let’s explore this a little further,  diving into the inner world: Take a moment to tune in  once again with your posture,   opening your heart space to be  witnessed, nurtured, and respected. And then take a moment to consider what  vulnerability means to you – and to   reflect mindfully upon what makes you vulnerable. If fear-based thoughts arise during this inquiry,  see if you might speak compassionately towards   them, reminding them that you are in a  safe space to explore what rests within. To love is to be vulnerable. To  create is to be vulnerable. To   take leaps of faith is to be vulnerable.  Allow this inquiry to expand and deepen. And now, returning your attention to the  center of your chest – perhaps resting   a palm or two on top of your heart –  silently repeat the following words: I am authentic, honest, and true. I am willing to be all of who I am. Vulnerability fuels compassion,  creativity, and growth. Take a moment now to thank yourself for  showing up for this courageous practice. And then, draw your attention to  your breath for another cycle or two.   Notice the breath’s innate ebb and flow. Draw your attention to the earth beneath  you… and to any sounds around you. And when you are ready, gently open your eyes. I hope you enjoyed today’s session. See you again.  English (United States)       
0 hello and welcome to day 10 of the expand  meditation program today is a wonderful   day not only because it's the last day of  the program and you made it through the   entire program so far but it's also the beginning  and continuation of your own meditation journey   maybe you have found those last 10 days  really hard and it was very hard for you to   sit down find time to practice or maybe you found  it very easy and it felt all really good for you   no matter how the experience was know that there  is no bad meditation so you showed up for yourself   and you did the work which is all that counts  usually we have a next steps video at the end of   every single one of our programs but this can  all be summarized in today's video and of course   the message that we want to send to you is to  keep going keep showing up really just don't   stop every single day is a new opportunity to  connect to yourself to learn more about yourself   to connect to stillness within and you do that  through your meditation practice so although the   program ends today we highly encourage you that  you continue again tomorrow with day one and just   keep repeating the program we strongly encourage  you to follow the program and go through it   for at least 30 days so two or three times more  through the full program so that you really have   established a solid habit and something that you  can rely on in the flow of life you can always   come back to this practice it will help you ground  it will help you lift you up no matter what life   is throwing at you you always have your practice  to come back to to reconnect only because your   experience of this program was a certain way  for the last 10 days doesn't mean that it has   to continue like this for the next 10 days or for  the next whatever how many days it could be that   the experience was so far challenging and the  next 10 days will be super easy and smooth and   you feel incredibly good it could also be that you  felt really good throughout the last 10 days the   next 10 days will be very challenging know that  this is completely normal that the meditation   progress is not really linear it comes in  different stages and there's ups and downs and   the important part is to not compare your  meditation practice and experience as it   is today to something that was a while ago  sometimes even when you're meditating for   many years it could be that at a certain time in  a certain stage it feels like you just started   out again and you feel like the meditations that  you did several years ago but know that this is   all part of the growth and part of the process  so the reminder here to just trust the process   keep showing up and treat every meditation  independently enjoy every meditation as it   is and as it unfolds each day when you are ready  to begin grab your pillow set everything up find   a comfortable seat take a few deep breaths  and whenever you're ready close your eyes take the next few breaths or  so to connect to your body notice what you're sitting on the  connection and support to and from the earth from there lengthen upwards through the spine in the beginning of your meditation  when you just sat down it's the time   to readjust to move around so that you can  sit effortlessly throughout this practice this helps to set you up right in the beginning  so that you can be as still as possible throughout your session establish  that connection to your breath that is   it has become so familiar  now over the last 10 days because you continue to show up every day to  sit down and feel the breath feel yourself feel the life force that is  included in the air you take in that keeps all the systems  going that keeps you going as well as the plants and animals and all  the other earthlings on this beautiful planet we all breathe the same air you all see the same sun the same moon feel the same rain mother nature is ultimately what connects us all that connects all beings that means reconnecting to mother nature is reconnecting to everything  it's reconnecting to life reconnecting to yourself each and every day as  you sit down perhaps for the rest of your life by really making your meditation practice a really solid part of your day it is through that that you discover more  about yourself you discover more about everything and everyone around you and you can bring more quality into all  the actions you do throughout the day continue to lean back into that pure  awareness where you observe the breath if distractions come up let them be and let them go treat yourself with kindness that you noticed and refocus on the breath there are three qualities of awakened doing with awakening being the realization  that you are not your thoughts but instead your being your true  self is separate from the thoughts it is which has the ability to observe the  thoughts those three doings are acceptance which is you being fully present  surrendering and accepting to what is it might seem like a passive  action or you being passive but it's not to be confused with not caring it is actively choosing to be okay  with something that's currently going on although your first instinct  or reaction or from the outside it seems like not such a good thing whatever is coming  your way in life through presence you accept you're accepting life the second awaken doing is enjoyment enjoyment is not something inward   flowing towards you it's not something  found in the activities or in the doing or in the work or in your surrounding it's from the deep connection to yourself within that you feel this enjoyment and let it grow so that it then is outward flowing from  within outwards into whatever you're doing the doing itself is the purpose of the doing not to reach any goal or anything you're  working towards that is helpful but secondary the act of doing right now is all that counts the third modality of awakened doing is enthusiasm it is you finding joy and fulfillment in your actions so much so that you are just really excited about it all your enthusiasm is so strong that you  cannot wait to do more of what you're doing because you enjoy doing it if you recognize any of these three in your life then the awakening process has already started where you go deeper and deeper  to yourself to life to nature at this point you cannot stop the process anymore you can only delay it and by establishing a meditation practice daily you can cultivate those  qualities let them grow go deeper the plant has already started to grow maybe you see a little bit of it already maybe  not if you continue to show up to meditate   to breathe to be you are watering that plant as you continue your meditation  practice over the next days weeks months and years imagine how much this can transform you  imagine how much this can transform your life your relationships your work all this enjoyment and all this quality  outward flowing into everything else   around you but coming from deep within it's  important to reconnect to that source within as often as possible maybe someday you don't have to reconnect anymore   because you are constantly in this state  of connection this is the true liberation also called moksha but it's all about feeling it within you feel it a little bit within yourself  you felt that spark the process has started   continue to show up day  after day to water the plants let it grow and enjoy enjoy what is unfolding notice the air coming in through the nose and out to the nose the breath is always with you there are many opportunities  for you throughout the day to feel it to reconnect to take a few minutes of breathing in and  out nice and slow there is no upper limit to   how many times you can reconnect throughout  the day in addition to your daily meditation practice if you're waiting in line if you're  waiting for the train or for your taxi consider just sitting down or standing eyes open or closed and breathe just for a minute maybe for five it's about this reconnection several  times throughout the day which   will really rewire your brain and create stronger connections of love peace relaxation presence and authenticity the journey has just begun you know the door and it's up to you to go through it to continue this practice the path will appear as you walk it day after day step by step feel the connection to the earth again length now to the spine when you feel ready bring your palms  together bring the hands to the heart to be so so proud of yourself for  showing up over the last 10 days sitting down to practice to reconnect that  space within you has always been there   but it's sometimes covered up this is why we come back to the practice  to sit reconnect to who you truly are from here on it's up to you  what you make of this journey but you are worth it to go deep to feel the  love for yourself for others to be happy to be at ease i wish you the best of luck  love and support on your journey thank you very much for practicing with us today with love and gratitude namaste  English      
0 hello and welcome to inspired meditations this guided meditation is called embrace a growth and success mindset 95% of our thoughts are repetitive if that's any indication of how we live our lives we repeat a lot day in and day out the problem with this is we begin to settle into a groove without growth and to be successful to achieve your goals you need to do something you haven't done before and think in a way you haven't thought before most people remain stuck in the same old patterns and limited beliefs and thoughts rendering them the same old results and lack of growth their goals have changed but their mindset has not and they repeat the same day even a tree planted firmly in the ground finds a way to grow it grows up and toward the sky your thoughts and beliefs impact your reality if you're currently operating on a fixed mindset old thoughts or you've hit too many dead ends you may think is is it or be convinced this is it please give this guy to meditation to listen don't settle for what you already have and nothing more when you are desiring so much more aren't you the least bit curious about what you are capable of new growth and successful thought patterns are something you can achieve with this guided meditation if you are ready and I believe you are let's begin settle yourself into your seat like you've never settled before go ahead let loose what have you got to lose give yourself permission to relax you can say to yourself permission to relax permission granted permission to slump over restfully like a sleeping dog or napping cat you will be relaxing and learning here and relaxing while you learn learning things for your benefit your growth your personal success just get really nice and comfortable committed to this process you are preparing to alter or enhance your current mindset in your favor instead of forcing it like you may be accustomed to by willpower or waiting on motivation you will settle into it easily naturally and almost effortlessly like easing into relaxation now no need to force it relaxation happens differently for everyone often the mind or the body resists pulling back just a little or a lot this resisting is a silly habit you can feel free to let go of at any time because what you really crave his deep relaxation whether you resist with a tense body or busy mind let me assure you it is natural it's better to release the urge to control the resisting than to push back do not resist the resisting let it go let nature take his course and let relaxation find your body ultimately either your mind or your body will release it first releasing the effort it takes just to relax instead it will resist the effort it takes to resist and simply give in to the feeling of complete and comfortable relaxation the kind of relaxation that soothes your mind and your body you may be wondering how much easier would be to just relax nestled in your protective corner of your mind wherever relaxation occurs for you loosen up your neck and shoulders wiggle or slouch into your seat  now is a good time to take a deep breath in and exhale releasing tension release whatever it is you're holding on to feel yourself relax deeper on the exhales another nice deep breath in through your nose and exhale releasing relaxing deeper into relaxation settling deeper into your seat checking whether your mind or your body feels more relaxed right now is your mind settling into the background or your body releasing tightness whichever it is see if you can notice it now and make a mental note of it body relaxed mind relaxed any and all relaxation is progress as you achieve a state of peace  take one more deep breath in through your nose really enjoying the process like a vacation and exhale let the tension deflate out of your shoulders your back your hips all the way down to your legs relaxation cascading down through your entire body washing over you soothing and effortless your breathing becomes regular and easy finding a natural rhythm for you gently closing your eyes if you haven't already quieting the mind pleasantly distracted with a simple game of counting backwards starting with 100 down to 99 imagine the numbers in your mind as you count down 98 97 96 down to 90 watching the numbers go down drifting down into deep relaxation still counting  down further still counting your way backwards and to relaxation and soon you spend less effort on counting and simply watch the numbers drift on and on and you can lose track of them if you like now at this point accomplishing just the right amount of relaxation for you releasing the numbers let go of any efforts now while you take this time to relax and learn in a special way for your growth your personal success and to see farther beyond what you have ever seen before listen carefully and diligently now that you are relaxed in your own way I can let you into a sacred space of growth one that will contribute to your personal success you can almost feel it now relaxed in mind and body you can let these learnings soak into you flow into your inner knowing listen now to this universal truth people grow evidence shows all people can purposely change and grow throughout their lifetime leading to positive effects both physically and mentally you can grow the hand you were dealt is just a starting point for development I wonder if you know you can grow through mistakes and setbacks too that's called learning and the more you learn the more you can do and the more knowledge you take with you to apply to your future success you can grow because you recognize your accomplishments maybe some you haven't noticed before you grow because you feel moved by possibilities ignoring what you think is impossible you can say I'm exploring this and just trying things out you have a GPS navigation pointing you towards something good at all times like an inner compass you can now see golden opportunities thanks to your focused growth mindset that you continually develop and expand unexpected events and happenstance leads to new opportunities you now recognize those opportunities considering changes you've always wanted to make they show up as a reality in your mind now the seed is planted for things to be set in motion learning from your difficulties every success story is sprinkled with difficulties learning in this meditation so that you can apply it to your life learning from the process of growth in order to grow your personal success discovering and focusing on your definition of success regardless of external influences learn and never forget or take for granted the lessons they are valuable beyond measurement this is your recipe for growth and now I want you to see what growth looks like open your mind up to your imagination I want you to see growth to see it presented to you through five doors just ahead of you imagine what those five doors look like you scope them out before approaching perhaps they are monotone and unassuming or colorful and eye-catching are they made of wood or metal or any other door material notice all these doors appear to be closed from a distance but as you come closer step by step you experience an open minded attitude open to possibilities open to good changes open to learning a special invitation awaits you from behind each door you ask yourself which of these doors looks the most open to me what more do I want to experience open any door and investigate any number of opportunities waiting for you keep this in mind you have infinite possibilities for growth in your life you have infinite ways of achieving your personal definition of success you may not continue to seek out what every door offers you develop the knowing and intuition to leave a door behind when it no longer serves you there are plenty of opportunities limitless invitations to grow begin to open doors in your own life step by step day by day you open yourself up to new ways of thinking and expanding your gaze beyond what is just in front of you there are always doors for you to open opportunities up ahead some doors will be there for you to learn others there to encourage you and even others will direct you somewhere else better suited for you and your goals you are open to opening the doors open to opportunities and growth that is rewarding open to possibilities open to learning developing yourself in your life day by day finding your way to your personal success noting that even your most basic abilities can be developed with dedication you discover something new about yourself each week and often that you can apply to your goals you learn something each week and often you are committed to your new view of growth your growth and success mindset it is stronger than ever convinced and confident creating an atmosphere of learning and accomplishment opening up spaces in your life for more love more money good health natural well-being and learning of course you create new goals and add another page to your personal success story you design a roadmap and story that has your signature on it uniquely you your own personal version of success one that is becoming crystal clear the more doors you open the more opportunities you see you are capable of achieving and embracing the mindset that preps you for success smarter committed decisive innovative confident you build yourself better than before you build it on top of past mistakes past learnings you build a vision that fuels your growth and success you take this mindset with you wherever you go your true potential is unknown you discover how it unfolds and even surprises you each day each week and often you are springboard for growth and stretching your existing abilities farther a growth mindset grows with you as long as you are growing and you are dedicated to growing you can change and grow as you apply meaning and dedication to the areas you wish to develop success to you takes on its own meaning and definition and significance for you when you enter now into your new and improved growth and success mind it's like entering into a new world learning is a good thing growing is natural relaxing reflection like in meditation becomes your navigation tool of choice seeking input and feedback and opportunities is a rewarding part of your success continue along the path enjoying the process most get curious about what works for you and what doesn't imagine yourself moving into a new space a bigger space so that you have room to grow you can spread out and learn you can unpack possibilities open up a few windows and let the light in feeling especially uplifted from this relaxing and important talk we had I'd like you to become more aware of the surroundings in the room connecting your new mindset and mental well-being with your body first how it feels to be open to opportunity stretching and lengthen your body relaxing flexible and your growth mindset now becoming alert to the knowledge and enlightenment your mind has received from your learnings here discovering how you will apply it to your life as soon as possible eager to experience meaningful growth in your life and apply it to your personal success fully awake to your surroundings snapping out of a daydream feeling the air temperature in the room feeling good as always thank you for joining me if you'd like to receive more information on how meditation can benefit your life please sign up on my website to receive email alerts ww inspired meditations calm peace and be well
0 begin by lying flat on your back palms at your side facing upwards legs fanned out slightly if you need to make any adjustments hit pause to do so otherwise lovingly close your eyes begin by focusing your awareness on your breath allow yourself to become present with the sensation of breathing feeling your stomach expand as you breathe in and contract as you breathe out wherever you are in your day whatever it is you've been doing right now you are here you're in this beautiful moment you are where you are meant to be and you feel that truth now you let whatever's been simply be as you in this moment simply are you tune into the weight of gravity feeling your body against the surface on which you are resting you allow yourself to drop down as if you are an anchor gravity takes over completely as you let your muscles go slack and you let your breath be soft and gentle as you feel at once both your body and mind relaxing you begin to imagine around you a dome of white light it is sparkling and magnificent its radiance is almost warm on your skin  as if you're basking in the sun rays all around you  it's a diamond white light and you take a moment simply to bask in its radiance you feel its energy entering into your cells into every space within every cell as if this beautiful warmth is entering in making its way into every atom of your being lighting you up with this magnificent radiance until light begins to burst forth from your physical body and you feel yourself rising up as if being lifted by the light until you are in a space where all there is is pure luminescent white light it's as if you are suspended here in this energy light pouring from you radiating around you and it's as if you're being lifted up first from your own heart as if your heart is leading the way drop your awareness into the space in the middle of your chest where your heart's energy center lies tune in to how uplifted it feels right now you feel a sense that the tides are changing the winds of change are wrapping around you you feel as though you are being cleansed and cleared from any ancient debris that's no longer needed in your path on life you may even see as if debris is just falling away from you being incinerated by the white light and the more you feel yourself letting go the higher you feel yourself lifting  and with your body rising higher and higher so tune does your frequency you feel yourself lifting up rising to connect with this incredible divine wisdom this energy of oneness with all that is this connection to love you may feel a smile come across your face as you feel connected to this and it's as if you can hear the word renewal being whispered in your ears it's time you feel and know it's time to shake off any cobwebs and to lift up into true purpose true meaning it's as if you're on this spiral path and you feel so ready for the next corner you're turning into  the next curve you're taking you don't know what lies ahead but you know it is of your highest most loving good you feel the pathways rearranging now so that as you come around this curve in your journey up a hand is the perfect path for you in your highest most loving divine timeline  yes the winds of change are blowing yes you are entering into a sense of renewal and regeneration rejuvenation enjoy you feel hope trust and optimism growing within you as you know this next season of life is full of life full of radiance exuberance and you can feel that growing and rising within you you affirm to yourself i'm ready for this next chapter i eagerly await it with loving anticipation i trust the path i'm on and i'm excited to see what unfolds  you continue to carry this feeling with you as you feel your body descending back down feeling it reconnecting with where you're lying right now  feeling it connect into the surface on which you're resting you lovingly begin to wiggle your fingers and toes roll your shoulders and really take your time as you slowly open your eyes back to the world around you allow yourself to really take your time reintegrating and when you're ready do the journaling practice in the description below thank you so much for being here if this served please make sure to like subscribe you can even donate or purchase our merchandise we so appreciate your support and wish you a beautiful spring equinox  English (auto-generated)      
0  begin by sitting in a comfortable position whatever that looks like for you lovingly close your eyes and tune in to your breath and your body taking a moment to really pause here and focus on your breath letting your belly expand as you breathe in followed by your ribcage and contract as you breathe out let yourself deepen your awareness of your breath and body  feel the weight of gravity  and let yourself be here right now begin to feel genuine appreciation and thankfulness to yourself as you feel yourself becoming more present and relax into that presence let it be natural and simple it simply is just as you simply are and as you feel your body relax  we are transported to a tropical beach there are palm trees rustling in the wind and smooth clear steady water you can see through it perfectly all the way to the sand at the bottom and it's as if the weight of gravity keeps you anchored down as you walk on the soft sand into the water submersing yourself fully  feeling the flow of the water around your body encompassing you in a loving sensation as you walk further down surrounded by love  until you reach a pausing point where you find a treasure chest glowing at the depths of the water you effortlessly walk up to it with a sense of awe and wonder there's a question mark on the top of the box notice what question you have within you right now trust that question and say thank you to it and now open the box and find your answer inside it emerges as something symbolic to you right now allow yourself to receive the answer fully and say thank you trusting your imagination and intuition trusting yourself with this box now clear with the exception of a thin film of gold sparkling and glittering inside of it you allow yourself to enter this treasure box making it as comfortable as you'd like if this means you need to make it as big as a house go ahead and do so  now that you are inside the treasure box  with the gold glittering all around you  allow yourself to breathe in the glittering gold energy receiving it into your cells into your dna receiving it all around above below to the sides of your body the back the front this golden light streams in from everywhere entering in fully encompassing you  feel it uplifting your energy and now a mirror appears within this treasure box and so you walk over to the mirror and smile at your reflection  you fully see in this moment you are your treasure  this visualization you give yourself an embrace where you place your hands on your heart you are welcome to do so physically in this meditation if you wish or just continue to imagine it either way really tune into the sensation of holding yourself of honoring yourself of viewing yourself as your greatest treasure  gazing into your own magnificent eyes you say out loud or in your mind thank you  and you watch as if some other aspect of you that is non-physical emerges from your physical body this is your inner being your highest self see them in the mirror now standing beside you trust your imagination whether they appear as human or just as energy whatever you notice allow that to be and more importantly than appearance become aware of their energy feel how they are flowing love your way feel how when they look at you in the mirror they see the most magnificent being  they see a human who is worthy of love joy all the things that they desire  they pass you a pair of glasses and they say that when you put these on you will view yourself the way your inner being does this will help you with your spiritual growth when you feel ready place the glasses on yourself and look at your reflection see yourself the way your source the way our inner being sees you capable strong  loving wise eternal on the right path what else do you see and feel say thank you to your inner being feel them reconnect with you take a deep breath in stomach and rib cage fully expanding holding your breath at the top gazing into your eyes in the reflection and when you're ready exhale with a sigh as your breath returns to its regular pace of breathing you feel so deeply loved held and supported trusting and knowing you are indeed your own treasure you are capable of viewing yourself through the eyes of your inner being through the eyes of love this tool moving forward will greatly help you with your spiritual growth view yourself through the eyes of your source trust and know you are loved all is well and you are on the right path you perfect treasure you  imagine yourself transporting back to where you are right now in this present moment feeling your sit bones feeling your arms rolling your shoulders wiggling your fingers and toes and when you're ready take your time as you open your eyes back to the world around you taking this feeling with you everywhere you go throughout the rest of your day
0 ﻿A Guided Meditation on the Body, Space & Awareness Yongey Mingyur Rinpoche Welcome! I’m very happy to share with you some meditation instructions. It is very simple: Please keep your spine straight. Just straight, but don't worry too much about perfection. I have to stay there, perfectly! Just keep straight. And please close your eyes. Just close your eyes like you’re sleeping. You don’t have to close them too tightly, or in any special way. And relax your muscles in your body. Relax the muscles in your head, forehead, face, ears, cheeks, throat, upper body, arms and hands, lower body, legs and feet. Just totally relax, yet with your spine straight. And bend your neck forward a little bit. It's almost like the weight of your head rests on your neck. You can effortlessly rest. Each part of the body rests on the one below. And in this way, you feel like you’re resting but there’s also some strength, so you can find balance. All the parts of your body are resting, one on top of the other. But, at the same time, there’s a strength within you. Your spine is straight. Sometimes you feel a little bit of gravity. And sometimes you feel some sensations. Just let it be. Whatever feeling is in your body, just be aware and let it be. When I was young, my father used to tell me, "Let your body be on the cushion, and let your mind be in the body." This way, you join body and mind together. Your mind comes into the body. Just be aware of your body, and be aware of any sensation or feelings in your body. Pleasant feelings, joy, bliss, or unpleasant feelings, tightness, pain, or neutral feelings, maybe tingling, or no feeling. So, with any type of feeling, just be aware and let it be. OK, for a few seconds, just be aware and relaxed. OK. Now, you can expand your awareness beyond your body, to what surrounds you. Maybe there are some sounds, or some smells, or some sensations, like your room temperature is a little bit too hot or cold, or some noise, like people chatting, or a car, a train, or airplanes moving around, or your neighbors making noise. Anything. Just be aware. Just know. Just recognize there are sounds. And your awareness becomes more open, and vaster. Stay there and be aware of any phenomena for a few seconds. Now, you can expand your awareness  beyond your immediate surrounding. Feel the space around you, above you, and be aware of that space. Further, deeper. All the phenomena are occurring in the space, changing in the space, dissolving back into the space. Like clouds, they come into the space, remain in the space, and dissolve into the space. And, now, you can expand your awareness even more. Go beyond the clouds, into space, which is boundless. Space, which is open in all directions, everywhere. Be there. Don’t worry, you’re not going to get lost. Stay there for few seconds. OK, now, please slowly open your eyes, and be present here. And rest your mind, also — not only the body. How do you rest your mind? For example: If you like to do physical exercise, like jogging in the garden or park, or hiking in the hills or mountains, maybe for a few minutes or hours... let’s say one hour... After you finish your jog, you may use a nice seat or a rock, or a grass field. Sit on the grass field and, with a big sigh, “Ahh,” just rest. You don’t have to meditate, just let your mind rest as it is and the body, also. Just rest... for a few seconds. Maybe you feel like, “Oh, there are so many thoughts, so many emotions occurring in my mind. What should I do with those emotions, those thoughts?” Same. Same as before, you just be aware. If there are thoughts and emotions, you’re just aware of thoughts and emotions, what I call “blah blah blah,” just look at the “blah blah blah,” be aware, and let it be. Same as when you’re aware of your body, aware of sounds and sensations, now it’s the same: Just be aware of thoughts and emotions. Let them come, and let them go. But, if you cannot be aware of them, it’s also fine. You're in a non-conceptual state of mind, but not too long — only for a few seconds. Again, when you see thoughts and emotions, or forms, sounds, smells — anything, just be aware... for a few seconds. If anything occurs in your mind, in your body, in your perceptions, just be aware, and let it be. OK. Now, you can apply this awareness, this openness, this awareness with any situation in your life, with any activities in your daily life. Short time, many times, everywhere, anytime. Seven days a week, 365 a year. In this way, you can fill your mind with joyful, peaceful experiences, and you will develop your inner love, compassion, and wisdom. Thank you!  English       
