This is an extended body scan meditation.
A body scan is a highly effective technique
for bringing a sense of harmony
between your mind and body.
This session will help to keep  you calm, present, and relaxed.
Go ahead and find your favorite position
in order for us to get started.
Just settle in,
and maybe even give your arms a quick shake,
or gently rotate your neck a few times just to get yourself comfortable.
And as we always do,
begin to bring your attention to your breathing.
Remember: naturally in and out,
feeling that gentle movement of your chest.
Also remembering to keep your back straight
and shoulders just slightly pulled back.
And as you bring yourself  into this present moment,
I invite you to set aside the past
and not think about the future.
Right now, the only goal is to be right here,
right now.
The movement of your breath
and the sound of my voice.
Just repeat these words after me"
"Here in this moment."
"Peaceful and present."
And once more:
"Here in this moment."
"Peaceful and present."
Great.
And now we are ready to begin the body scan.
As we do this,
you may feel various sensations  throughout your body.
This shows just the kind of powerful  connection your mind has with your body.
Welcome these and continue to follow along.
Begin with a focus at the very top of your head.
Bring your attention there and  relax the muscles in your eyes.
Using each time you breathe out
to bring an added release of tension.
And as you relax those muscles in your eyes,
feel that relaxing energy moves  slowly down into your jaw.
Notice if you are clenching or tight.
And as that energy moves, I like to  imagine this flow as a glowing light,
or the flow of water as it moves down.
Notice any places that you  are possibly creating tension0
even where you didn't notice it before.
Now feel that slow energy move down  through your neck and shoulders.
Just releasing all of that tension.
Letting go of any remaining tightness.
And then it slowly moves down into your arms.
Imagine that relaxing energy  slowly moving up your arms.
And then continuing down  through your chest and torso.
And with your next breath,
just allow all of that tension in your  upper body to release even further.
Letting go of any of that remaining tightness.
Just full focus on your relaxed body and muscles.
Let that imagined glow or flow of water
feel and remain ever-present.
And now we'll continue on down into your legs,
,just the same allowing those muscles to relax,
and then relax even further.
You are remaining alert,
but your body is feeling so  free of that remaining tension.
And as this happens,
finally, let it move into your feet
and all the way out the tips of your toes.
Now imagining your body bathed in that warm glow,
here in the present moment.
Just spend a few more moments enjoying this.
Remember, this is your time to  be here in the present moment.
Focused and relaxed here and now.
And now,
you will prepare to come out of this meditation
and back to your day.
But you will retain those relaxed muscles
and that sense of peace and presence  throughout the rest of your day.
And this concludes today's session.
Have a wonderful day and thank you for  listening to Mindful Peace Journey.