Welcome to our gentle and calm meditation for relaxation and sleep.
In this moment right now I want you to find a space to externally and internally
disconnect from the outside noise.
May we take this opportunity to let go of the day,
let go of the idea
if t was good or bad and
simply fall into the silence and peace within your heart.
So let's find a comfortable seated position.
You can even sit on your bed in preparation for a deep and restful sleep.
Take a deep breath in
and exhale out.
Rest your hands comfortably on your lap.
Close your eyes.
Notice how you're feeling right now in this moment.
Inhale and exhale.
Take this opportunity to let go of the heaviness, the body, the mind.
Allow any tension to release out of your face, relax your forehead.
Allow your eyes to be heavy, the jaw to be relaxed.
Inhale and exhale.
There is no more need to hold on to anything anymore.
Give yourself the permission to truly surrender to rest,
to peace
and to the calm and loving energy within you.
Inhale
and exhale.
Let go of your shoulders.
Let them fall away, downward, away from your ears.
Releasing any heaviness, weight and tension that the world may have brought upon you today.
Let it go.
Allow your arms to be heavy,
soft and relaxed.
Feel your heart gently beating with each inhale and exhale,
reminding you of the powerful energy that exists within,
reminding you of this beautiful life that you have,
that you get to experience through all the positive and challenging moments each serving a purpose,
to find gratitude,
to find strength,
peace and acceptance of this magical existence on this earth.
Breathe in.
Breathe out.
With every breath that you take right now
open your heart to gratitude,
to love,
to forgiveness
and to this presence within you.
You are strong, you are powerful, you are beautiful.
You are loved and you are love.
Let this idea sit with you as you slowly give yourself permission to relax,
to let go of the day, the worries, the uncertainty,
digging deeper within yourself to find the true essence of what and who you are,
your
loving
conscious awareness.
Inhale
and exhale.
Notice your breath, notice what comes to you as you begin to let go.
Notice any images, colors, shapes or memories that may arise.
Without any judgment
simply stay aware
as you give yourself permission to relax deeper and deeper.
Within this present internal awareness
begin to visualize yourself
melting deeper and deeper into your relaxed state of being,
your body
getting heavier
as you open your heart to the loving energy that you're cultivating from within.
Breathe,
rest
and let go,
just let go.
Listening to the sound of the rain, let yourself be filled with ease, serenity
bliss and deep loving relaxation.
Breathe in,
breathe out
and let go.
Breathe in, breathe out.
Now as we finish our practice together
you are more than welcome to lie down on your bed
and use this beautiful energy that you have cultivated from within
to guide you into a deep
healing and relaxing sleep.
If you are not ready for sleep yet
simply bring your hands together in Anjali mudra
and bow down to your heart
to thank yourself for giving
yourself this moment of peace,
relaxation and healing.
May you have a beautiful night. Sleep well. Namasté