Greetings. Namaste friends.  I’m glad to be with you. 
There was a cartoon that came out right after  Christmas. The caption is “Tree trauma” and  
you see this very disturbed Christmas  tree lying on the psychiatrist's couch  
and the tree is saying, “Well, it turns  out that all those gifts weren’t for me!”  
And I loved it. And I thought I’d share  it with you as a bit of a lead in for  
our theme. We are going to be exploring  what’s called trauma-sensitive mindfulness.  
And I’d like to begin by saying that in my  early days of meditation practice the uniform  
mindfulness guidance was “If something  strong comes up, be with it,” you know,  
“Lean into the fear,” you know, “Bring a gentle,  clear, mindful attention to whatever arises.”  
And that worked pretty well for me. But I found  out later that for people that had a lot of fear,  
had trauma, it could amplify the fear in ways  that sometimes felt overwhelming. And some people  
experienced panic, some stopped meditating.  What we didn’t understand - what we are  
calling “trauma-sensitive mindfulness - is that  mindfulness needs to be adapted with flexibility,  
with sensitivity, with care to best serve  those that are living with PTSD as well as  
anyone that’s feeling in the moment potentially  overwhelming emotions. So if after this talk  
you want to deepen your understanding in  this territory I’d like to encourage you   to read David Treleaven’s book “Trauma-sensitive  therapy” and it’s in my resources on my website. 
So as we’ll discuss for those with PTSD when  strong fear arises there may be times that it  
really isn’t wise to lean in. And by way of  illustration, Peter Levine who is a leader  
in responding to trauma uses the Medusa myth to  illustrate how, you know, Medusa is this monster  
with venomous snake hair and anyone who looks in  her face will be immobilized, you know, freeze,  
turn to stone. So Perseus who is the Greek hero  is advised by Athena – goddess of wisdom - she  
tells him not to look directly at Medusa, to use  his shield as a way to reflect her gaze, and this  
will allow him to enter her cave and slay the  demon. So the point being that sometimes we can  
directly face and contact suffering but at other  times we need to actually shift our attention  
and in the case of meditation we need to find some  ways of soothing our sympathetic nervous system,  
you know, self-soothing when it’s activated, in  other words we need to learn to nurture ourselves. 
So we’re going to return to this. But I want  to name that this talk is really for all of us  
because so many have experienced trauma and most  have the experience at times of being emotionally  
overwhelmed where it just feels like what’s  going on is too much, we need some way to calm  
ourselves, to come back to balance. So whether  we are healing PTSD or a less severe suffering  
we are wounded in relationship,  we need relationship for healing,  
and a crucial part of relationship  is how we relate to our inner life,  
this is the domain of meditation. Meditation is  really essential for all deep, authentic healing. 
And one of the last times I taught  at a weekend retreat, a life retreat,  
I remember a woman standing up in front of I think  there were about three-hundred people and she  
said, “I’ve had decades of PTSD and therapy. And  it wasn’t until I was introduced to meditation,  
and that was eight years ago,” she said,  “that I finally found an inner refuge.”  
I’ve heard this from so many people. And  the key thing that they share – this is the  
common theme – is that the very place of trauma  transforms into the gateway for spiritual healing;  
where the wound is becomes the entry. And some  of you might remember Lenard Cohen saying,  
“In the broken places the light shines through.” 
So trauma as painful as it is also is a place  where we can reconnect with a sense of the sacred,  
soul, spirit, a sense of a fearless heart. So I’m starting here on purpose with what’s  
possible that as much as the painful  emotions and when it’s extreme - full  
trauma - is something that we don’t  wish for in our lives. That intensity  
really does become a domain for spiritual  awakening when we learn how to pay attention. 
So what I’ve seen is – and this is for all of  us – that the practice of mindfulness needs to  
be customized. And we each have different bodies  and minds, so we need to - and not just that, on  
different days - so we need to have a flexibility  with how we work with the instructions we’re  
given. This is especially true for those with  trauma. And the emphasis needs to be with trauma  
on first creating enough of a sense of safety so  that it’s possible to really have a full presence. 
So what we’ll cover is we’ll look at some of  the background on the suffering of trauma,  
we’ll look at particular strategies that will help  you customize mindfulness and self-resourcing,  
and really the healing that comes when  we can then open to our wholeness. 
So by way of background on trauma, if we were  live, you know, if I could ask you and do a  
hand raise, “How many of you either know trauma  personally in your own body-mind or know someone  
close that is dealing with trauma?” Most  everyone would raise their hand because  
trauma is so widespread and similarly PTSD – post  traumatic stress disorder – it’s so prevalent  
in our collective psyche especially admit the  global poli crisis’s that we’re living through.  
The writer Carol Patterson describes us as a “PTSD  society.” And the signs of a traumatized society?  
Disconnection from the earth, from our  own bodies, violation of the earth,  
cruelty and aggression towards fellow beings,  the addiction that is so spread through our  
whole globe, polarization and fragmentation, the  breakdown of communication between parts… These  
are all signs of trauma. And you can think of  it collectively but also in an individual body.  
And it feels really important to recognize  that people in non-dominant groups  
face ongoing threats and conditions that make  them more vulnerable to experiencing trauma  
including generational trauma, just experiencing  that. And these identities – non-dominant  
identities – include race, religion, ethnicity,  social class, sexual orientation, indigenous  
heritage, national origin, gender, disability…  So many! And if you are in the dominant groups,  
it’s very hard to remember and recognize with  those with different backgrounds and identities  
are actually experiencing. And I feel like Resmaa  Menakem has been such an important voice for me on  
this. And he uses the language “black bodies feel  endangered and potentially traumatized by whites.”  
He describes how through the  centuries and currently white bodies  
are countless times more violent to black bodies  than the reverse: killing, lynching, raping.  
And so as he is sharing white people  often forget how much trauma is there.  
Falkner says it so clearly, he says, “The  past is not dead. It is not even past.”  
And what this means is: Situations that white  people don’t register as triggers for trauma  
actually are. And I think of in my own life the  meditation class I used to teach weekly live,  
largely white attendees, and it was located in  a fairly wealthy suburb and my friends of color  
would come and report they felt intensely  uncomfortable, many of them, anxious,  
you know, and at first I couldn’t  get it, you know, it’s like “Well,   everybody is being really friendly” – that’s not  the deal, I mean, there is the micro aggressions  
that happen and there is that history of feeling  threatened by white people, trauma in the body.  
They’re The of course more obvious situation would  be being stopped by a police car for speeding:  
It might be unpleasant for a white person, but  for a person of color it can mean life or death.  
Another whole domain: Those with financial  security forget the trauma of poverty,  
that we are living through these pandemics and  how a family when COVID hits a family and you are  
unable to work and you have several children and  that goes on for a bit can put you under the line.  
Not sure about feeding your family. Paying rent.  I think about those in the global north and,  
you know, we have some climate events that are  really disturbing and still don’t quite recognize  
that the devastation of climate change really is  here now for many countries: Pakistan, one third  
under water last year Filipinas, Bangladesh;  and then I think of the droughts and famine  
in Africa, Chad, Kenya, Somalia. This  is not just livelihood, it’s life. 
So I took a little time with that because there  is such huge trauma in non-dominant populations  
and just to realize how much that is around  the globe can be staggering to the mind. And  
then of course in addition to the collective  causes of trauma many if not all of us go  
through traumatic events in our personal  life: in the womb, upbringing, accidents,  
sickness, surgeries, abuse, sudden losses… You  know, more than two thirds of children reported at  
least one traumatic event by the age of sixteen. So the difference between trauma and PTSD – and  
this is simplified – but trauma  arises in situations where the   nervous system is overwhelmed, where  normal coping strategies don’t work,  
PTSD arises when there is an inability to  process and integrate that trauma into the  
larger body-mind. So some people will have trauma  and process it and not have PTSD and others won’t.  
And here is an example: Let’s say someone is  sexually abused as a young child and it happens  
repeatedly and unpredictably. And so there is  that severed belonging, there is no safety, no  
larger container, no trustworthy available adult  who could in some way make possible the healing,  
the processing. So trauma is living in the body,  “The issues are in the tissues” as they say. And  
it’s easily triggered. Any sign of danger, of  violation, of abandonment activates acute stress.  
And what happens? This means that the parts of  our brain that have evolved to monitor for danger  
are over activated chronically, the on-button is  jammed and so there is this regular secretion of  
cortisol which is toxic for neurons. It damages  connections needed for parts of the brain to  
communicate so it’s easy for executive function  to get cut off, for the limbic fear to take over.  
I find a useful way to illustrate this is some  of you may remember from Dan Siegel where he  
says you know, this is your brain – and you  might look at your fist right now – this is   your brain. And if you look at it close in, this  is your limbic system, the spine goes up into the  
brain stem. This area, the thumb and this area  here represent the limbic system and the brain  
stem which is responsible for the arousal of  fight-flight-freeze. And these four fingers,  
this is the frontal cortex, this is executive  functioning, it actually has the capacity to  
send messages down to the limbic system saying,  “It’s okay,” you know, when there is this thread  
that comes up the frontal cortex says, “Oh we’ve  experienced this before, we’re going to be okay.”  
But what happens when we’re chronically stressed  and we don’t have that kind of integration is we  
get a message of danger and we flip our lid. And  when we flip our lid there is a disconnection  
from empathy, compassion, perspective, we are no  longer functioning with the parts of our brain  
that give us resourcefulness, we lose access to  flexibility, to creativity. So this is the hijack  
by the survival brain. We’re essentially  unsafe. And it’s interesting to consider  
to play, to mate, to create, to nurture our  young, to nurture others, to receive nurturing  
we have to feel safe enough to  temporarily turn off our vigilance,  
shut down our defensive systems, we can’t  have a flipped lid. And yet how often are  
we partially or fully having that flipped lid  reaction and cut off from those capacities,  
caught in a sense of being small,  separate, confused, disconnected.  
Even when we are not caught in a full flipped  lid, we know what a partial hijack is like when  
our mind becomes preoccupied and small  and we’ve lost our sense of perspective,  
we don’t have access to our full intelligence, we  make more mistakes. One of my favorite examples is  
of a mom who is generally into feeding her  children organic foods and good vegetables. But  
she wasn’t able to get to the grocery store, she  was stressed, she was tired, and she is looking   for what to feed her children. And thank goodness  she finds a frozen pizza in the freezer. And she  
feels really guilty, but she announces, “Okay,  we’re having pizza tonight.” And her son resists,  
he says, “I don’t want frozen pizza!” And she  says very calmly – tries to be calm – “That’s  
what we’re having.” Inside she is increasingly  feeling upset because she feels like she is  
failing them and she feels like a bad mother.  And her son is getting upset, “I don’t want it!  
I don’t want a frozen pizza!” Again, she tries  to sound calm, “It’s all we have in the house.  
You’ve had it before.” And inside she is thinking  “He is spoiled! I failed him! I am not only a bad  
mother in terms of good dinners, but I spoiled  him, he is an entitled brat! I am a bad mom…,”  
you know, just really spinning off. Takes a deep  breath, says, “That’s what we’re having tonight,  
sweetie. I’m tired. And it’s what we’re  having.” And he looks with his tear-streaked  
voice and he says quite calmly, “Okay,  mama, but could we at least heat it up?”  
We go into a trance. Partial hijack whether it’s  just a partial flipped lid or a full flipped lid  
we go into a trance. And as I mentioned when we’re  threatened, when we’re having that reactivity  
whether it’s partial or full flipped lid in those  times we are cut off, we are not able to play,  
learn, bond, take in or give love. And  this, friends, is a suffering of trauma,  
that cut off experience, the fear and mistrust  because it’s really a cut off of belonging to  
our own being and to others and in a deep way  we are cut off from wholeness, from spirit.  
So bringing this to meditation you might consider  that when we are triggered in an intense way, when  
we are in reactive fight-flight-freeze, we are cut  off and outside of our window of tolerance, we are  
not able to tolerate what’s arising for us, and  that term “window of tolerance” again is from Dan  
Siegel – psychologist and author, has been on this  podcast – and, you know, as he describes it when  
we are in the window of tolerance our brain is  integrated, but when we get triggered and we flip  
our lid we leave the window of tolerance, we’re  either caught in fight-flight which is strong,  
unpleasant emotions and when the instructions for  mindfulness if we are in fight flight are to feel  
what’s going on that’s when we can have that  sense of overwhelm. Or we are in freeze - kind  
of rigidity, a dissociation - still outside the  window of tolerance - numbing, can’t feel things  
- and often the instructions for mindfulness are  “Feel what’s going on inside your body” and yet  
there is a sense of being cut off. So here is the  thing: The classical instructions for meditation  
tell us to feel our feelings and when we are  in fight-flight-freeze we are either feeling  
them too much - it feels overwhelming - or  unable to feel them. And either way there  
is a sense of in some way not being able to  feel the meditation, failing the meditation.  
And when we are outside the window we  are really cut off, we are unable to.  So I’d like to take some moments now to  look at the primary suffering that happens  
when we’re triggered either into dissociation  or triggered into that hyper-sensitivity and  
strong emotion. And the primary suffering  is shame, shame about what’s going on.  
And I’d like to share with you a story some of you  might remember that I felt really illustrated the  
power of traumatic experience and the shame that  can surround it and how we can work with that.  
So many years ago, I was working with this  woman who was sexually and physically abused  
by her father. And as an adult she had  an eating disorder, she wasn’t capable  
of intimate relationships, and she would swing  –as I’ve described - between being dissociated  
from her feelings to being flooded. And she hated  herself. She hated herself when she was shut down,  
she hated herself when she was filled with fear,  she hated herself for her body and for her eating  
disorder, she considered herself damaged goods  and hated herself for who she was. This is shame.  
And she did a good deal of therapy and also was  working with meditation and we were customizing  
it. And out of one intense and deep therapy  session she wrote a story about her own healing.  
And in it she was seven years old, hiding in a  closet, terrified after an unexpected attack by  
her drunk and enraged father. And the little girl  in story is praying, she is saying, “Help, I can’t  
take it anymore.” And she opens her eyes and sees  a fairy in a haze of blue with a glittering wand.  
And she lets the fairy know how her father has  been beating her and her mother doesn’t help and  
how she feels like they both wish she was dead.  And the fairy listens with tears in her eyes and  
then tells her that while she can’t make all  this pain and fear disappear, she can help her  
get through this time, she can help her forget and  then remember later when she is able to handle it.  
And with the wave of the wand the good fairy  says, “I’m going to send things into different  
parts of your body. And they’re going to hold them  for you until you feel strong enough to let them  
move freely again.” And she explains that she is  going to help the little girl tighten and dull her  
pelvis and her belly and she is going to constrict  her heart and throat and protect her from feeling  
the raw intensity of the hurt and  the fear and the broken-heartedness.  
And I’ll read you the last part of the story.  This is the fairy speaking. “’You’ll have trouble  
feeling and being close to people, but it’ll be  your way of surviving. At those times that the  
pain irrupts you’ll find your own ways to control  it, ways that may not look good to the world but  
will be of temporary comfort. And you my darling  will be a fairly functional human being in spite  
of all this because you have a strong mind and  you can hold this all in and I’ll be helping you.’  
The child looked directly into the fairy’s eyes  and asked, ‘How will you help? Will you come back  
to see me?’ ‘You will not forget everything.  I will leave a voice inside you that will urge  
you to reconnect with your whole self. It may be  a very long process but in time you’ll feel an  
urgent calling to step out of imprisoning  beliefs, to unwind your body and release  
what’s been holding all these years. You’ll learn  the art of sacred presence. There will be physical  
and emotional pain as you open but you’ll have  what you need - the compassion and wisdom,  
the support of loving others – to be a whole  person, spiritually awake but still the same.  
This is because your soul has always been there  just hidden by the scars of this lifetime.’  
The good fairy put the arm around the child’s  shoulders and gently lead her into her bed. She  
waved her wand and stood by as the little  girl finally relaxed into a deep sleep.  
She gazed tenderly at the small, innocent  face and then whispered her goodbye,  
‘When you wake up you’ll forget that I was  here. You’ll forget you asked for help.  
You’ll forget the sharpness of your daily pain.  This is the only way I know to get you through  
this. You are a beautiful child. I love you. And  in fact your parents love you although they are  
incapable of showing it to you. You’ll have  to love yourself enough to heal so that when  
you’re older your life will be powerful, full  and free. One day you will know who you really  
are. You’ll trust your goodness and know your  belonging. Until then and for always I love you.’” 
So I shared her story in a talk I gave – of course  she gave me permission – and after that talk so  
many lined up to talk to me. And their sharings  were very similar. One person put it so clearly,  
she said, “I’ve always been so ashamed of the  addiction, of the conflictual relationships,  
the rage, shutting down and listening to this I  realized it wasn’t my fault but I was trying to  
control the trauma. I didn’t have a better  way.” And she said again, “I didn’t have  
a better way.” And it was that sense of relief,  this glimmering of self-forgiveness. And so many  
had something similar that if they could just get  that it was the best they could do at the time,  
there was some sense of hope and possibility.  But they needed to forgive themselves first.  
I remember in a similar way a man I worked  with a few years ago. Company downsized and he  
got laid off and he tried for a few years just  tried everything to get a job and he couldn’t  
and he descended into this panic,  depression, sleeplessness, you know,  
he was taking anxiety medication and he  more and more withdrew from other people,   really avoided other people, and his marriage was  falling apart, he was really filled with shame.  
And I remember working with him and finally  at some point saying, “This is trauma.  
And it’s not your fault.” And something  cracked open. He started weeping.  
It was the beginning of some self-compassion, the  beginning of healing. And he gradually reached  
out to friends, he joined a men’s group, he  started reengaging, he was on a path of healing. 
Trauma is a universal response to endangerment  - when we are powerless - as are the symptoms  
of PTSD when trauma hasn’t been processed. It’s  universal. And what starts to release the shame is  
a kind of cellular realizing “It’s not my fault,”  it’s not our fault that we get traumatized,  
it’s not our fault when we’re unable to process  the trauma, it’s not our fault that our nervous  
system reacts with anxiety, with depression,  it’s not our fault that then there are the  
behaviors aimed at controlling pain, coping  strategies. And this was the realization the  
woman who wrote that story about the fairy –  that it was intelligent to shut down feelings  
when they were too much to handle – and the coping  strategies that followed were her way of eating,  
her way of controlling her body experience,  avoiding intimacy, it was the best she could do. 
So I’m spending some time with this because where  there is trauma there is shame that’s asking our  
attention and healing. And I extend this and  say: With any deep emotional wounding – neglect,  
criticism, be trail, rejection – somewhere deep  down we feel it’s our fault and we’re ashamed  
of the way the wounding affects our personality  and behaviors, we think we should be different.  
If you can recognize this shame and dedicate to  releasing it – “It’s not my fault” – it’s possible  
to then bring healing directly to the place of  trauma - to woundedness - and begin to open. 
Let’s pause here and reflect for a moment. You  might consider where you might be living with  
generational trauma or with early trauma, wounds  from a lack of good nurturing - in other words  
poor attachment – bonding, you know, where  might you have some experience of trauma,  
where have you been outside  the window of tolerance  
and then had to develop coping strategies   to work with what’s going on inside  you – maybe dissociating from the body,  
maybe anger, addictive behaviors, avoidance  of real intimacy, neediness, co-dependency.  
So just check and see where that might  be in your life, how it’s presented.  
Trauma and then the reaction to trauma.  
And as you do honestly check and sense:  Have you felt shame about woundedness?  
Have you felt shame about the ways you have  tried to protect yourself from feeling too much?  
And as you explore this you  might put your hand on your heart   and just be aware of what’s going on inside,  the places of self-judgment or shame,  
and let some of the places of judgment come  right to the foreground. And as they do you  
might explore what happens when you say  with kindness, “It’s not my fault.” And  
if it helps you might imagine  someone you trust our love  
be the one to say it, “It’s not your fault.”  
I invite you to hear it, to let it in, and if it’s  hard to let it in this message pray to let it in.  
Again from the fairy story, “’You’ll  have to love yourself enough to heal  
so that when you’re older your life  will be powerful, full and free.  
One day you will know who you really are. You  will trust your goodness and now your belonging.  
Until then and for always I love you.’” If  
your eyes are closed, you might open them. In many shamanistic cultures the process  
of reconnecting – of releasing the shame  and processing the trauma – it’s called  
soul retrieval. And it’s believed that when  a person is traumatized the soul leaves the  
body as a way of protecting it from intolerable  pain. And in the process of soul retrieval the  
traumatized person is held in a love and safety  of community as the soul is invited to return.  
I like this description because I’ve heard many  who heal from trauma describe recovering a sense  
of soul, of spirit, recovering a sense of the  dimensions of sacred that live through them and  
had been cut off. And likewise in other healing  contexts the care… just in this one it’s the  
community – the care of therapists, friends,  teacher might initially provide the safety  
to reconnect with some degree of authentic  presence and well-being inside. We need it.  
I always think of that little story of it’s  a stormy night and a child calls out for his  
parents because he is scared of the thunder. And  the father goes in and he says, “It’s okay. You  
can trust that God is with you.” And he is with  the child a little and then he leaves the room and  
then the child starts whaling again and the father  comes back and again reassures him, you know,   “God is with you.” And he leaves the room. And  finally the child is crying and he comes back  
in and the child says, “You know, I know God  is with me but I want someone with skin on.”  
So I love that because we need the interpersonal,  we need the relational support in healing from  
trauma, from that cut off feeling. And as we’ve  been talking we also have a relationship with our  
inner life. And that’s what we’re cultivating. I so often think of psychologist Luis  
Cozolino who says, “It’s not survival of  the fittest, it’s survival of the nurtured.” 
So this last part of what we’re exploring is how  the self-nurturing that comes with some facets  
of meditation is exactly what we need, exactly  what we need in this process of healing trauma.  
And we need enough access to safety  and care to be able to open mindfully.  
And partly we build that in a daily meditation  that we adapt in a way that allows us to really  
feel safe enough. There are many instructions  that get offered and we think “Oh well,  
meditating means I have to close my eyes.” You  can customize any part of the instructions. Find  
out for yourself in your daily practice if it  is better to have your eyes open or closed.  
The posture: It’s always assumed we are sitting  but you could be lying down or standing.  
For some with PTSD movement really helps  because sitting still is difficult, too scary.  
You can spend some time and sense: What is the  anchor that really serves you? It might not be  
the breath because breath is sometimes difficult  for people who have PTSD. Find an anchor – maybe  
it’s sound, certain parts of the body that  either are neutral or positive in sensation,  
begin by grounding yourself,  feel the earth beneath you.   I have a PDF that is available on how to  customize your daily meditation if you have  
PTSD and it’s on the homepage on my website  and that can give you more guidance in this. 
So let’s look at what happens when distressing  or strong emotions start taking over. What then?  
And just to remind you that while you might  have enough tolerance to face or lean in,  
it’s very wise and compassionate to recognize  when you don’t, that this might be a time like  
Perseus to not face directly and instead to  emphasize self-nurturing. Once you are back  
in your window of tolerance, you can then return  to a more direct contact filled with mindfulness.  
Okay, so how do we self-nurture?  The training is to pre-identify  
a way of self-resourcing that you can then call on  when you are distressed. And there are many types.  
You could be sending a message to  yourself that comforts and soothes you,  
all types of messages. You could visualize  someone you love - imagine they are either  
hugging you or giving you a message of comfort  -, you can visualize a safe space – place you’ve  
been to or a place in your imagination -, you  can gently touch your heart as I often teach.  
All of these if they are familiar to you, you  might recognize them as part of the N of RAIN,  
Nurture. And so the training is to practice this  self-nurturing with these resources when you are  
not activated, when you’re feeling okay,  as part of your daily meditation perhaps  
so that the pathway to the window of tolerance  is more available when you do get triggered,  
so that you’re more able to remember the  pathway back to your inner resourcefulness.  
I was working with a woman in DC – a Latina  woman who is very active in immigration and  
serving the local community doing social  justice work and so on – and she had a lot  
of childhood trauma and was also regularly  around people who were traumatized including  
in her extended family and those who she works  with. And she found that when she was activated,  
she couldn’t calm herself with self-compassion,  she couldn’t put her hand on her heart and give  
herself a message, she felt too regressed, too  damaged, too flawed. So her pathway – what she  
discovered would work – was she brought to mind  her grandmother who was very strong and empowered,  
kind of a spiritual matriarch in the family; and  brought also to mind other women in the family;  
but her grandmother was the key one. And  she imagined her grandmother saying to her,  
“I’m here with you, you can trust your heart,  it’s okay” and just kind of touching her cheek.  
Once she identified this – just bringing  to mind an image of her grandmother and  
that touch and that message – that became a  central part of her daily practice. Every day  
she would invoke that sense and feel the  experience of that comforting presence.  
And if you’re doing this, it really helps to  start your daily meditation with self-nurturing,  
to end it, to use it as often as it’s possible  because repetition makes a difference.  
In neuroscience it’s described as “entraining  and installing.” What’s happening is there is old  
pathways in the brain that you’ve been repeating  over and over again that are anxious pathways,  
worry pathways, fear pathways and you’re  creating new pathways; and the more you  
repeat them – the pathways to self-nurturing –  the more access you’ll have. Once that is there,  
once that resource is strong, you can do  what’s called “pendulating” and that means  
you can go from feeling that resourceful place  to dipping in a bit to where the fear lives. And  
each time the fear feels a little too strong you  come back to the place of feeling resourced. And  
gradually what happens is by bringing some  of the qualities of feeling resourced to that  
wounded place it begins to get processed.  This is what it means to process, to digest  
or heal trauma. It’s to be able to bring  an increased sense of presence and care  
to a place inside you, in your body, feeling  it where you’ve been storing the trauma.  
Just to kind of loop back to the fairy story.  This was the process this woman did. She would  
call on that sense of the good fairy and feel  her presence and feel herself held and really  
nurtured and safe in that presence. And then she’d  go to the parts of the body that had really stored  
the trauma. And there were stories with them and  very strong feelings. Bit by bit over many months.  
And she found that as she did that she started  experiencing this growing freedom, this capacity  
to, you know, actually be with other people in a  more intimate way, her eating disorder lightened.  
Similarly, with this other woman that I  just brought up – bringing her grandmother,  
feeling her grandmother’s presence – she was  able to very quickly come back into that window  
of tolerance. The fears would still come up  but she knew how to pause, how to breathe,  
how to bring that image to her mind and how to  find her way back to that more integrated place. 
So I want to step back here friends and say:  This is an archetypal process that like Perseus  
we first need to redirect our attention and  find – in this case I am describing the kind  
of self-nurturing that increases our sense of  safety – and then once we are back inside the  
window of tolerance – we are not overwhelmed  – then we can begin to open to old wounds. 
So what I’d like to do is close with a  practice. And this is a guided meditation  
that offers a pathway to our own inner  resources in the face of intense emotion.  
I’d like to invite you to  find a comfortable posture,  
whatever position allows you  to feel most safe and present.  
If it helps to begin to collect your  attention with a few full breaths.  
Feel the earth beneath you,  the weight of your body,  
sense of contact right here. Your  eyes could be open or closed.  
And now scan and see who in your life brings you  comfort, brings you a sense of love and safety. It  
might be a grandparent, child, friend, healer, pet  – could be living or not -, could be an ancestor  
or perhaps a spiritual figure you  haven’t personally met, deity,  
divine mother, Buddha, Allah, Jesus.  
In other words: Sense who helps you to feel the  type of love or safety that you want to access  
when things are difficult. So take some moments  to imagine and visualize that person or being.  
You might imagine their eyes looking  at you with an expression of care.  
And sense the love, the energy surrounding  you when you bring that being to mind. And  
you might attune to what words of  wisdom from this being - from this  
presence - what reminder might most  comfort the fearful part inside you.  
What does that part most  need to remember, to trust?  
Sense this message being offered and  what is it like in your body and in   your heart when you let the love  and wisdom of a caring being in?  
And if it’s hard to let it in just let that be  your sincere prayer: “May I let in this care.  
May I let in the messages of truth.”  
And you can even visualize the loving  bathing you, bathing the cells inside you.  
So it’s surrounding you and permeating you.  
And see if you can sense that felt  experience of being safe and loved, a  
belonging to something larger, a  larger source, resting in that.  
Okay, now shifting your attention, please bring to  mind a situation that you know can evoke fear in  
you, not trauma but some level of fear. It might  be something that arises in a relationship with  
somebody, it could be a situation – maybe  a social kind of setting that scares you -,  
something related to work, financial  security, your own or another’s health.  
And let the situation be close in so you can  actually sense it like you’re watching a movie,  
play it out to get a taste  of the fear that it evokes  
so you’re noticing where you are,  
the look on other people’s faces,   whatever is going on, the words that are  exchanged, fearful thoughts or beliefs.  
And let’s just sense where the fear lives in  you, what it’s like, how you experience it.  
And then in a very intentional way you might take  a full breath and intend to resource yourself,  
intend self-nurturing. And you might begin by  grounding. Just feel yourself sitting right here.  
Feel the weight of your bottom on the  seat, the warmth of your feet on the floor,  
the gravity that pulls you to this beloved  planet, our larger body right here.  
And again imagine that comforting being.   Look at the image and the felt sense  of that being and sense close in  
eyes that are caring, hear the words that are  comforting, and feel yourself held by, cared by  
belonging to a larger source.  
And you can now bring these resources with  you – this sense of this loving being – as  
you touch into the fear just a bit knowing that  you can touch and then return to a safe space,  
you can touch in, sense the fear,  
and feel the support of that  space of care, of nurturing.  
And if at any point the fear feels like  too much, go back and again re-imagine and  
strengthen and vitalize this connection with this  being and with the sense of being held and loved.  
So over the next few moments just sense that  back and forth – the loving resource space  
and then touching in, feeling where the fear  lives in a very visceral way in your body  
and then back to the fullness of self-nurturing,  of the resource. And as you’re doing this it  
might help to slow your breathing down a bit  – long, slow in-breath, long, slow out-breath.  
Be aware of your relationship with fear  in these moments, increasingly perhaps  
the possibility of inhabiting a sea of loving  presence and including the currants of fear,  
resting in that vat sea of loving, in  the heart-space that has room for fear.  
This is the true meaning of a fearless heart.  
For the last few moments, be the sea of loving  
and include the currants that are here  with tenderness, and clarity, and presence.  
And gently bringing yourself back. If your eyes  are closed opening them. A few full breaths. 
So Rumi points to the same truth that we’ve  been exploring really through these two segments  
on awakening and healing through trauma. And  his words are this, that “The wound is the  
place where light enters you.” What if you really  trusted that? What if where there is woundedness  
you sense a real interest or curiosity:  How can I deepen this self-nurturing?  
How can I bring a presence that’s truly  healing to this place of woundedness?  
Unprocessed wounds can either fester in shame  or we can dedicate ourselves to loving ourselves  
into healing, letting the wounds become  a portal for true awakening, for freedom. 
So we’ll close in a simple  way, friends, with some meta.   You might just let the attention again go inward.  
May we all love ourselves into  healing. Just sense what that means.  
Sense your dedication to that.  
May live from that field of loving presence  including all beings everywhere on our planet.  
May all beings everywhere  heal, awaken and be free. 
Blessings, friends. Sending you much love.