This is a brief meditation on embracing the day.
You can use this at the start of your day, or  as a reminder at any time throughout your day.
I will speak for a bit then we'll let the  ambient music slowly bring you back into the day  
at whatever point you wish.
Each day is a new beginning,
each day is a reminder of renewal.
Each day is a gift and opportunity  to be a more fully present person.
Make yourself comfortable.
You could choose to sit on the  ground or upright in a chair
or even standing if you like  
ensure that your back is straight and that  you are using good yet relaxed posture.
If you like, gently shake  out your shoulders and arms  
as you settle in bring your  attention to your breathing.
It is that ever-present reminder of  being here in the present moment.
and right now you can choose to  continue breathing gently and naturally  
but also if you like just take several  bigger deep breaths in and out.
Feel your muscles relax...
Your body releasing tension...
Just enjoying this breath focus.
And, as you return to natural breathing focus,
you may also choose to roll your shoulders a bit.
or tilt your head to one side and the other.
Of course, always do what feels comfortable
and doesn't strain your body.
now that we are settled into  a state of calming presence
I invite you to continue your breath focus,
and deeply hear these reminders for your day,
whether you're at the start of your day,
or somewhere in the middle...
Each day is a new beginning.
Each day is a reminder of renewal.
Each day is a gift and opportunity  to be a more fully present person.
Any regrets from the past...
You can allow them to melt away...
like flowing colors leaving your body.
And worries about the future
if those thoughts are not fully necessary,
let them melt away.
Let those colors flow,
And your energy right here  in this place of presence...
is like you are a glowing orb  full of strength possibility
locked into focus
Today, and in the days ahead...
You will be especially compassionate toward others
and especially aware of how you  communicate with anyone you encounter.
you will be a light upon someone else's day
in your daily interactions you  will be assertive yet measured
you will know the right thing to say  or do in most any given situation
And continuing to breathe gently...
Continuing to stay focused here in the present...
I suggest to you that
you will show yourself kindness
in the same way that you will show it to others.
Mistakes may happen,
but you will focus on how you recover from them,
and not focus on the mistake itself.
You will believe in your potential.
You will be patient in reaching your goals,
but confident in your ability  to move closer to them.
Embrace the day.
Embrace yourself!
Give yourself permission to  be your biggest supporter.
Your own self-care will exude outward...
reaching the hearts and minds  of all whom you encounter today.
And so... be strong.
Be well.
Stay here in this space and take a  few more deep breaths if you like...
and then return to your day  at whatever point you choose.
If you can, take your time.
This is your time.
this is your space.
Live it for a bit longer, and come back  whenever you can use this reminder.
Embrace the day.