This is a guided mindfulness meditation
on being thankful every day.
No matter what is happening in life that we may qualify as good or bad...
lucky or unlucky...
one thing we can know for sure is that we are here
and able to experience each day
with a fresh new vision
each morning that we wake up.
This session will remind us of this
an emphasize that having a  thankful and appreciative heart
will allow us to find a renewed  peace and stillness within our minds.
It will also help us to send  positive feelings outward
creating an added grace and  deeper understanding of others
throughout our interactions each day.
As we begin, allow yourself to  settle into a comfortable position
keeping the back straight and the spine extended
Envision your body as being  relaxed, yet alert and aware
not allowing yourself to slouch or drift off.
This is a time for a renewing focus of energy
bringing yourself here into the present
and enjoying the clarity and  openness of the mind that it brings.
And so, just breathe gently and naturally
just as you were before I drew  your focus to your breath.
You can use the air movement  in and out of your nostrils
so naturally...
as a point of focus.
Reminding you of the constant  cycle of your breath movement.
Again, just remain comfortable and alert.
Tuned in to your breath. Your body.  And, the words of this session.
As you comfortably settle into this  presence, we will do a short countdown.
Feel free to repeat these short phrases after me.
Either out loud or in your head,  if you feel comfortable doing so.
Starting now:
5: Peace and presence
4: Becoming the watcher
3: Energy in this space
2: Energy into the universe
1: Here and now
Here... and now.
Wonderful job.
And what do I mean by... becoming the watcher?
Well, you may enjoy imagining  yourself where you are
within the space of your room.
And when you become the watcher,
you see yourself from another perspective
at another point in space.
And as you visualize yourself within that space,
you feel the energy of your body
and you can even imagine a warm glow  start to form all around you as you watch.
You are the life and energy within this space.
And that energy extends out of the room...
out into the sky...
into space...
and out into the entire universe.
Continue to enjoy those thoughts and this presence
keeping that relaxing breath focus and presence.
Just take it in, enjoy it.
Remind yourself that this is your time.
Your perfect place.
And now... we bring our  attention to being thankful.
With all the possibilities that each day brings,
the challenges...
the problems...
It can become easy to feel out of  balance with the world around us.
and feel as if we are a victim of  our circumstances, however small.
If we're not careful, we can unconsciously  let our minds drift in to loops of negativity.
And yet, thankfulness can be a reminder.
Waking up each day with a thankful heart
can remind us that our obstacles are minor
compared to the knowledge that  each day is a new opportunity
a renewed purpose.
Each day is filled with possibility.
Mistakes can be mended
and new relationships can be built.
And even in the most challenging of times...
thankfulness allows us to remind ourselves
that we are strong.
that we can get though.
that this, too, shall pass.
Being thankful each day can lift us up
and put a sense of love into our hearts.
We become grateful without  the need to pay mind to it.
Our appreciation simply begins to exist
underneath the surface.
An undercurrent of joy, rather  than anxiety or negativity.
And so, with this in mind...
I invite you to open your heart and mind
as we repeat a series of affirmations.
I remind you that you remain here in the now.
In your comfortable space...
In your time...
Breath and body in rhythm.
Ready to welcome these thoughts.
And so again, I invite you  to repeat each affirmation
either out loud or in your head, if you wish.
And we will begin... now.
Here and now...
I remember to be thankful.
Here and now...
I greet each day with possibility.
Here and now...
I send love outward.
With each day...
A renewed strength of mind.
With each day...
A peaceful presence.
With each day...
A thankful heart.
Great.
Just take a moment to reflect on these ideas.
Enjoying this space...
and enjoying this time.
And when my talking ends,
and there's just background music...
You can reflect and further  meditate on these ideas
of the possibility of each day.
Sending love outward
remembering your strength of mind,
your peaceful presence,
and your thankful heart.
You can use this to go forward  into each and every day...
allowing you to wake up each  morning with that thankful heart
and a focused mind.
You will be ready for positivity and productivity.
Taking in and enjoying each moment...
even during challenging times.
Or having the knowledge that you  have the strength to make it through.
Remember that thankfulness helps  us to see a clear path forward
and truly cherish all that we have.
And we remember that waking up to each day,
in itself, is a blessing
and a chance for new possibility.
And so now...
if you wish to continue on with reflective  meditation and the background music
I will just count you down.
Starting with...
5...
4....
3....
2...
1...
Thankful every day.