This is a guided mindfulness  meditation on feeling overwhelmed.
Take a mental step back
from whatever you are feeling right now.
Allow yourself to be comfortable
and to take some slow and natural breaths.
In and out...
In and out...
Feel your breath and body in your space.
Recognize that for just a bit,
you get to find a comforting space,
here, in your time.
Just you in your space...
...hearing my voice.
Enjoying each moment.
Enjoying your presence.
Feeling okay with everything just as it is.
Just for now.
Again feeling so relaxed and comfortable
with your body here in this space.
And taking natural gentle  breaths as your focal point.
We wouldn't be human if there  weren't times in our lives
when our hearts and minds became overwhelmed
with a weight that we are carrying.
These feelings can come from many places.
But it is important to know that it  is okay and natural to feel this way.
What we can practice is improving a relationship  between these thoughts and emotions.
And recognize a response to them.
A still and calm mind can bring  us back into the present moment
and to tame that heavy weight
that can feel as if it reaches  all the way into our soul.
That still mind can tame that voice in our head
that says the pressure or pain or expectations
put upon us
are too much for us to handle.
Practicing this mindful meditation  allows us to take a gentle step back
and see the bigger picture.
Just as a violent storm will eventually clear
to become stillness.
There is a stillness underneath.
We can be reminded of the important phrase:
"This, too, shall pass."
And so,
I invite you to focus on lifting  that weight from your mind
by sharing these short phrases with me.
Feel free to repeat them after me,
either out loud or in your mind.
Taking your time with each one
and allowing the words and meaning to  sink deeply into your consciousness.
And so, continuing
that breath and body focus,
we begin now:
"I recognize stress and anxiety."
"Like a heavy weight upon me."
"I watch and understand it."
"I allow myself to let go."
"Feeling the weight lifting."
"Floating away."
"Floating away."
"Calm and serene."
"Still and present."
"Right here and right now."
Fantastic.
That is the end of the phrases.
And did you feel the weight lifting?
The burden just a bit lighter on your shoulders.
This may take time and may not be an instant cure,
but it will help you to step outside of yourself
and understand where this weight of these  overwhelmed feelings are coming from.
It allows us to purposefully sort our thoughts
and more clearly see a path forward.
And so, enjoying this time,
continuing that gentle breath  and body relaxation focus,
I will just
read these phrases one after another.
You are invited to just listen to them
and for any tension that remains,
I will help you to escape it.
Then I will finish up the  session, just a few minutes after.
"Recognize any remaining stress and anxiety."
"Like a heavy weight upon you."
"Watch and understand it."
"Allow yourself to let it go."
"Feeling the weight lifting."
"Floating away."
"Floating away."
"Calm and serene."
"Still and present."
"Right here and right now."
This will soon conclude this session.
And if you like, take a few last deep breaths,
do some shoulder or neck circles,
maybe stretch out your arms.
Just prepare yourself to finish up this session
and to continue on into the  next part of your day or night.
Be well, be at peace,
be present and mindful of your stress and anxiety.
If overwhelming feelings start to overcome you,
just remind yourself of how  you can let go of the weight
like a helium balloon.
Floating away,
leaving you calm and serene.
Becoming still and present,
right here
and right now.
So long for now.