Begin to relax, finding a comfortable position and starting to let the tension leave your body.

Imagine that you are at the top of a stairway. At the bottom of the stairway is a state of peace, calm, and relaxation.

Take note of how you are feeling right now, at the top of the stairway.

Imagine taking a step down the stairway... a single step closer to relaxation. As you take this step, feel your arms relaxing. Becoming heavy. Limp... loose... relaxed.



Further descend the stairway, going down toward relaxation..... down.... down.... to a state of calm and relaxation. Feel your legs relaxing and becoming limp. Your legs are feeling very heavy.... so heavy... feel your legs sinking down, the heaviness pulling your legs down into relaxation.

Picture yourself going slowly down the stairway, one step at a time. It is a comfortable, safe descent to a place of relaxation. Move down step by step, at your own pace, becoming more and more relaxed with each step you take.

Feel the heaviness in your arms and legs.... your arms are so warm and so heavy.... feel gravity pull on your arms gently, pulling your shoulders down into a relaxed position.

Take another step down.... and another.... more deeply relaxed with each step. Feel your neck and back relaxing. Feeling warm, loose... relaxed.

You might even become a bit sleepy as you get closer and closer to relaxation. That's okay.


Allow your mind to drift and your body to relax, heavy and comfortable. Your head and face relax.

Feel the muscles of your face becoming limp, soft, relaxed. Your eyelids are very heavy. It feels so good to close your eyes... your eyelids are so heavy, you cannot keep them open. So heavy and relaxed.

Moving down the stairway, down, down... almost to the bottom now.... when you reach the bottom you will be pleasantly relaxed.

The closer you get to the bottom, the heavier and more relaxed you feel. Your body is so heavy.... but at the same time feels light, as if floating. It is an unusual feeling, but pleasant. So peaceful. Drifting in calm relaxation.

Take the last few steps down to the bottom of the stairway..... sinking into relaxation. So heavy and relaxed.

Reaching the bottom now.... a state of calm and relaxation. You are now feeling peaceful and relaxed.

Now I'll repeat some affirmations for self-esteem. You don't even have to listen or pay attention, you can simply relax while I talk.

Just let your mind drift, and reflect upon these affirmations for self-esteem in the back of your mind, with your subconscious. You can take in the affirmations for self-esteem if you choose to and if they are a good fit for you, and disregard any that do not apply.

Just relax now and let your mind drift for the remainder of this affirmations for self-esteem script.

At the end of the script, I'll count back from 5 to 1, and you can choose to reawaken or drift off to sleep.... but for now, just relax... letting your mind drift.... there is nothing you need to do.... nothing you need to focus on.... just relaxed and calm.

Just let these words drift in your mind, without needing to focus especially on any of them.

You are a worthwhile person.

You are capable of achieving many things.

You deserve to be happy. You can be happy even through difficult circumstances.

You can handle the problems that come your way.

You are a strong person... while understanding that no one needs to be strong all the time.

You are an okay person.... a good person.

Your worth is not measured by achievements, appearance, or other external things. You are worthwhile as a person, just the way you are.

You are perfectly alright, just the way you are.

Accept yourself.

Be kind to yourself.

Take good care of yourself physically and emotionally.

You are okay the way you are.

(pause)

Continue to allow your mind to drift, as you just relax. Allow these affirmations for self-esteem to be true for you, repeating them silently in your mind if you want to, or simply taking them in.

I am a worthwhile person.

I deserve to be happy. I deserve good things.

I am a human being with flaws. It is okay to have flaws.


I am unique, and I appreciate my uniqueness.

I am perfectly alright, just the way I am.

I feel good about myself.

It is okay to like myself.

I am likable.

I have many good qualities.

I am a decent human being.

I do some things wrong and many things right.

I learn from my mistakes, and forgive myself when I make them.

I take time for myself. I deserve this time, and need this time.

I take care of others and I take care of me.

I accept help, support, and love from others.

I am confident.

I hold myself in high regard.

I like myself.

I accept myself.

I am not perfect, and that is okay.

I accept myself.

(pause)

Continue allowing your mind to drift.... relaxing. Let the affirmations for self-esteem become true for you, filling you with a sense of confidence and self-assurance.

You are capable of making positive changes.... capable of increasing your self-esteem.... and of nurturing your self-esteem.

Simply relax now, noticing what it is like to feel good about yourself.... allowing yourself to feel calm and confident.


(pause)

Keep with you this feeling of self-esteem. Remember the affirmations for self-esteem, taking them in and believing them as truth for you.

You can continue to feel good about yourself and keep this feeling of self-assurance, even after you are finished this affirmations for self-esteem script.

I'll count now from 5 to 1, and you can choose to drift off to sleep or become fully awake. When I reach one, you will be either in a state of deep sleep or you will be fully alert and awake, depending on how you have chosen to conclude this affirmations for self-esteem script.

5

4

3

2

1


