Welcome.
Go ahead and settle yourself into  a nice and comfortable position.
Sitting calmly and peacefully.
Your posture relaxed yet alert.
Rest your hands in your lap.
And gently close your eyes.
Now, let’s take a couple  of deep, soothing breaths.
Breathing in through the nose
and breathing out through the mouth.
Breathing in
and breathing out.
One last time, breathing in,
and breathing out.
Now, allow the breath to settle.
And just bring your awareness to yourself.
Be mindful of your current emotional state.
Accept yourself as you are,  right now, in this moment.
And just stay here for a moment,  enjoying sitting with yourself.
And think about the person you are today
and place this current self in context with  all the experiences that have brought you here.
So maybe you are a kind person.
Think about what has inﬂuenced  you toward being a kind person?
Maybe you are compassionate,  loving, or courageous.
And just reﬂect on what has inﬂuenced you  toward being the person that you are today.
And bring to mind your key  traits and characteristics.
What makes you the person that you are?
Is it your job?
Your skills and talents?
Your relationships?
Your approach to life and your hobbies?
Think about the words you  would use to deﬁne yourself.
So just spend a few moments  getting to know yourself.
And now, recall a time in your  past when you were going through  
a difﬁcult transition or making a tough choice.
Think about what you were doing and  how you were feeling at the time.
Remember how tough it was to be in that situation  
and attend to your past self with  compassion and understanding.
And remember what it felt like to pull through.
Think about how you handled the  situation or made the difﬁcult decision.
Think about the growth you experienced.
Congratulate yourself for going through  something that was a challenging time.
And just take a moment to wrap yourself  
in gratitude and acceptance for all  the hardships you have been through.
To heal and to grow is to accept  hurting as part of being human.
And now, repeat the following  phrases to yourself,
‘’I am doing the best I can with what I have.
Sometimes I struggle and that’s okay.
I will be kind to myself.
I will be patient with myself.’’
Tell yourself that life is hard sometimes,  but you are always here for yourself.
Every challenge in life creates  an opportunity for growth.
Take a moment to appreciate your journey.
And as this practice comes to an end,
take your time to come back to your surroundings.
Feeling the inner smile within your body.
Begin to stretch easily.
Wiggle your toes and your ﬁngers.
And when you are ready,
open your eyes.

