Welcome to Soothing Pod’s meditation.  
In today’s meditation, we will be  exploring the power of vulnerability,  
opening the heart lovingly to both  ourselves and to this innate human quality.
To begin, bring yourself to a seated  position that is secure and comfortable.
Close the eyes and allow  
the muscles around them to soften…
… and then check in with your posture.
Ensure that the neck and the rest  of the spine form one straight line,  
and then allow the shoulders to relax.
Soften the stomach as you become  more attuned to your breath,  
allowing it to flow as deep as is  comfortable for you in this moment.
Now, take a moment to tune into any thoughts or  stories that may be trickling through the mind.
They may be strong, heavy, and stubborn…
… or they may be soft, gentle, and fleeting.
Whatever the mind’s contents feel  like in this moment, see if you can  
open your heart lovingly to whatever is here…
… and then soften as you return to your direct felt experience in this moment.
Notice the earth beneath you or the surface  supporting you… and notice any physical  
sensations that may be present within.
If anything uncomfortable is present,
invite a loving, compassionate  breath into each of these areas.
Take a few more moments of quiet space  now, just witnessing whatever is here  
as you continually re-ground  yourself through the breath.
What does it mean to be vulnerable? To be vulnerable is to be raw, honest,  
and open; it is to be capable of loss,  hurt, and pain. It is to be fully human.
Many of us hide our vulnerabilities, denying  wounds and avoiding failure, because they  
hold much shame, guilt, and judgment. In a world  that often fails to go deep (or fears doing so),  
vulnerabilities are seen as weakness – and  weakness is seen as something negative.
However, if we open ourselves to the  possibility of being truly vulnerable,  
we come into contact with its power.
Because, despite any misconceptions we might hold about it, vulnerability is where
our humanity shines through; and through it, we grow, evolve, and find strength.
In the words of Brené Brown,
“Vulnerability is the birthplace of  innovation, creativity, and change.”
When we allow ourselves to be vulnerable, we  learn more about who we are as individuals  
and as humans; understandings that  propel us forward for positive growth.
Brown also explains, “Embracing  our vulnerabilities is risky  
but not nearly as dangerous as giving up on love  
and belonging and joy – the experiences  that make us the most vulnerable.”
Her words are an invitation for us to  honour and acknowledge our vulnerabilities.  
As each of us is human, each of us  is vulnerable in a variety of ways.
As we open ourselves up honestly and  authentically with healthy boundaries in place,  
we deepen our understanding of  ourselves and our connection to others.  
And, as we practice this authentic opening,  we invite others to do the same with us.
Let’s explore this a little further,  diving into the inner world:
Take a moment to tune in  once again with your posture,  
opening your heart space to be  witnessed, nurtured, and respected.
And then take a moment to consider what  vulnerability means to you – and to  
reflect mindfully upon what makes you vulnerable.
If fear-based thoughts arise during this inquiry,  see if you might speak compassionately towards  
them, reminding them that you are in a  safe space to explore what rests within.
To love is to be vulnerable. To  create is to be vulnerable. To  
take leaps of faith is to be vulnerable.  Allow this inquiry to expand and deepen.
And now, returning your attention to the  center of your chest – perhaps resting  
a palm or two on top of your heart –  silently repeat the following words:
I am authentic, honest, and true.
I am willing to be all of who I am.
Vulnerability fuels compassion,  creativity, and growth.
Take a moment now to thank yourself for  showing up for this courageous practice.
And then, draw your attention to  your breath for another cycle or two.  
Notice the breath’s innate ebb and flow.
Draw your attention to the earth beneath  you…
and to any sounds around you.
And when you are ready, gently open your eyes.
I hope you enjoyed today’s session. See you again.

English (United States)







