So, welcome, everyone to our Saybrook University and Mindfulness Moment!
I'm so glad to be here with you all.
So, for this time that we're together, I invite you to get cozy, and we'll be spending this
time in inquiry.
So, maybe you would like to grab a journal or a notebook if that feels right to you.
If not, that's okay too.
Just simply arriving as you are and engaging in this experience.
Just holding this meditation in your mind's eye and just bathing in response.
So, as you settle in and maybe you are grabbing for a journal.
Maybe a pen or pencil.
We'll just preface this experience.
So, tomorrow, we're experiencing a full moon and I often like to reflect.
Spend some time reflecting around what that means for myself and also for us as a collective.
So, there's a certain energy that comes with this full moon and with every full moon as
we're shifting from one moon cycle to the next.
Here we are, moving through Spring.
We're really shedding those days of Winter, and we're growing through Spring.
We see growth happening around us, and there's a real core energy that comes with this time
of year I think.
So, one that calls us to find balance to create harmony and to attend to relationships.
So, for me, that also means attending and acknowledging to relationship with disharmony.
So, noticing how you relate to other people.
How you relate to your community and recognizing differences between defensiveness versus receptivity.
How are you moving through your life?
How are you moving through change in your life?
Is there pushing or fighting or burning of self maybe?
I'd like to think of these periods that we go through as shedding of ourselves.
We shed, kind of releasing old patterns of thinking or behaviors that no longer serve
us.
Kind of move into a growth edge.
So, what I'd like you to continue or to begin or really consider here is how are you shedding
what no longer serves you.
How can you do this in a way that holds yourself more deeply?
Kind of allows you to move through change and discomfort with dignity and self-respect
and to more clearly see the opportunities for growth.
Profound growth.
So, again, just however you would like to be right now.
I'll drop in a few questions into your awareness and then hold some silent space for you to
explore in your journal or through writing or if you feel like you just want to sit in
still awareness.
So, however you would like to be right now is perfectly fine.
Again, just calling yourself back into just thinking about what are you shedding?
What are you letting go of right now and how are you moving towards your growth edge?
So, as we let go of parts of ourselves, there are some things that we want to hold on to.
So, here this question really being that I want you to sit with: what are some characteristics
you love about yourself and want in every version of you?
So, I'll just say that again.
What are some characteristics you love about yourself and want in every version of you?
I'll just hold some space now for you to move through dialoguing about this or just sitting
with that in your own body and mind.
So, maybe jotting down or even considering a few more aspects or qualities or characteristics
that really make you YOU.
Shifting now.
I'll drop in another question for you to silently consider or to express onto the page, which
is: what skins am I shedding?
We're talking about this letting go and moving into new growth.
So, what skins are you shedding?
For example, something that comes to mind for me and where I'm at is a shedding of the
hustle mentality.
This go-go-go Westernized mentality.
So, again, what skins are you shedding?
Just allowing yourself to bring awareness to this in your mind's eye.
Maybe allowing those words to format onto the page.
Holding all of this with kind awareness.
Acknowledging that shedding of old skins, and it's not easy.
It's not easy and there can be some resistance that comes up with this as we're metamorphisizing.
So, now shifting again.
Shifting your awareness to now considering how you can support yourself through this
change and how you can support yourself through your difficult times.
So, are final question to consider that I'd like to drop in here is to ask yourself how
do I desire to be loved?
This is a two part question.
How do I desire to be loved and how can I love myself the way I desire?
I'll say that again.
How do I desire to be loved?
First thinking about that.
How can I love myself the way I desire?
So, allowing yourself to consider what you write down anything else that feels meaningful
for you here.
So, now as we begin to bring this inquiry practice to a gentle close.
Just allowing yourself to really sit with whatever meaning or insight that might have
come forth from this experience.
Taking with you what feels important and maybe you had been closing your eyes if you were
just bathing in that still awareness.
If so, just allowing yourself to come back into this space that you were in.
Refocusing on what's around you.
Just acknowledging that there are others who are gathered here in this experience with
you.
Sharing this meditative space.
So, maybe something came up for you that feels important.
So, you might choose to speak from a place of experience or perhaps you would like to
not say anything at all.
Just be with that experience.
So, you might choose to remain here as long as you'd like with a sense of presence.
Allowing yourself to come back and together we will share in the fruit of practice.
Thank you so much everyone for being here today.
May you all be well.