Awaken Your Intuition
|10 Minute Guided Meditation To Enhance Your Inner Voice
Your intuition is the heart of your soul.
It connects you to a higher intelligence that protects you and guides you.
It knows everything you want in this lifetime.
And, it knows how to get you there.
All you need to do is quiet the mind, ask a question, and listen to your heart.
This meditation will guide you to tap into your intuition’s infinite wisdom and transform
your life in a magical way.
Begin by finding a comfortable position sitting or laying down.
When you are ready, gently close your eyes and let out a deep breath.
Exhale all that you have been carrying around with you throughout the day.
This is a new moment.
Leave everything else in the past and bring your awareness to this moment.
As you inhale through the nose, slowly follow your breath as it travels from your nostrils,
down your throat, and into your lungs.
Feel the air expand and fill up your entire chest.
And as you exhale, focus on the steady stream of air that comes from out of your body.
Keep focusing on your breathe a few more moments, and let your body fully relax.
Anytime you notice your thoughts wandering off, bring yourself back to the present moment
by focusing on your breathing.
You are safe here.
Surrender to this moment.
Now, we are going deeper into relaxation.
Bring your attention to your feet.
Imagine warm energy slowly pouring over your feet and going up to your legs.
Feel how all the tension is leaving your feet and legs.
Visualize the energy going up to your torso.
Feel your lower body getting heavier and heavier.
As the energy goes up, it relaxes your stomach, chest, shoulders, arms, neck.
Imagine this energy like a blanket that melts and hugs your entire body.
Feel your body as it’s pulled by gravity, sinking deeper into the surface beneath you.
Feel the energy going up and loosen all your face muscles.
Allow this relaxing feeling to release all the tension from your body.
From this place of full relaxation, shift your attention to the space between your eyebrows.
This is your third eye chakra.
It is the place where your soul meets your physical body.
It also provides the wisdom necessary to access truth beyond time and space.
Imagine a single point of purple energy penetrating the space between your eyebrows.
Visualize the purply energy going deeper into your skull.
Extend that energy outwards as well, and imagine the purple light beaming out of your third
eye.
Feel the tingling sensation as you bring focused attention to this area.
You may also feel a buzz of powerful energy all around your forehead.
Go deeper into the sensation as you connect to your intuition center.
Now, think about an area of your life that you would like guidance or clarity on and
form a question that could shed light on it.
Ask for the answer to be revealed to you.
Be open to any information you receive.
Notice any thoughts that arise.
Avoid censoring your thoughts or processing them with your rational mind.
Just observe what comes up without overthinking about it.
Even if things don’t seem to make sense or the answers feel incomplete, just note
everything that comes up without judgment.
If it feels right to do so, ask additional questions, one at a time.
But, do not force the answers.
If you still feel that you need more information, let it come to you.
Know that your intuition will communicate to you in perfect timing.
Your intuition has heard you, and the answers will come.
With this understanding, relax your mind and focus on the space between your eyebrows once
again.
Take three deep breaths.
With each inhale, breathe in light.
With each exhale, breathe out worry and fear.
Repeat these affirmations either out loud or in your head:
I trust myself and the voice that speaks within me.
All that I need to know at this moment is revealed to me.
I am always in the right place at the right time.
My intuition effortlessly guides me.
My intuition guides me to everything that is meant for me.
I am wise, intuitive, and connected to my inner guidance.
I am one with the highest intelligence that guides my soul.
Take one last deep breath and wiggle your fingers and toes to bring awareness back to
your body.
Shake your arms and legs gently.
Gently open your eyes and bring your awareness back to your surroundings.
If you've enjoyed this guided meditation, subscribe to our channel and
download the Enhanced app for exclusive guided meditations, visualizations, and more.
Find the download link in the description below.
Make sure to leave a like and comment; it helps with the Youtube algorithm and supports
the channel.
Thank you for listening, and we will see you at the next session.

English







