Welcome to Soothing Pod’s meditation.  In this session, we’ll explore the  
ways our meditation practice can help us  better enjoy who we are and what we do.  
Begin by finding a quiet place to sit.  
Gently close your eyes, and  let your spine lengthen.  
As you sit up tall, release any unnecessary  tension so that you stay alert yet relaxed.  
And as you start to settle  in, take a few deep breaths.  
As you exhale, let go of any  expectations you have for your practice.  
Let go of commitments for the rest of your day.  
And set aside whatever you  don’t need at this moment.  
Now, turn towards your breath.  
Soft, smooth inhales and exhales.  
There’s no need to shape or control your  breath. Instead, notice its natural flow.  
Observe your breath’s length.  Notice its depth… its temperature.  
Just let your breath be as it is, and stay  present from the start of each inhalation  
to the end of each exhalation.  
As you breathe in, watch the breath moving  through your nostrils... your ribs expanding...  
your belly rising. As you breathe out,  follow the movement of your belly releasing,  
your ribs gently contracting, and your  breath moving out of your nostrils again.  
Stay with the whole cycle of your breath,  noticing your whole body breathing with you.  
And now, invoke a sense of  appreciation for your breath.  
As you observe each cycle, enjoy the wave of  your breath. Notice the freshness of each inhale.  
The soft ease of the exhales.  
And when your mind inevitably wanders,  
drop any judgments or labels, and bring your  attention back to your breath once more.  
Tap into the ebb and flow of your  breath with kindness and appreciation.  
Now, allow your awareness to soften.  
Have you ever stopped to ask yourself  if you like the person that you are  
and the life that you’ve created? Regardless of  what your life looks like, it can be exhausting  
to live in a world where we don’t like who we are  or what we do. And no matter how hard we work or  
how many goals we manage to reach, we’ll never  feel truly content until we learn to accept,  
to like, and eventually to love who we are. Liking  ourselves isn’t about landing our ideal job,  
living in our dream house, or having the  perfect family. It’s about learning to hold  
ourselves with love and respect, celebrating  our strengths, and honoring our weaknesses.  
Meditation is a powerful tool which helps us step  more fully into our authentic selves, and learn to  
appreciate our unique gifts and qualities. Every  time we make room for our breath, just as it is,  
we are developing self-acceptance. And when we  turn towards our experience with appreciation  
and kindness, we are building our capacity  to honor and celebrate ourselves. It is  
from this place that we also learn  to appreciate and value who we are,  
how we speak and act, and how we move  through our days. As Maya Angelou once said:  
“Success is liking yourself, liking  what you do, and liking how you do it.”  
Now, slowly come back to your breath and send  a wave of appreciation into your whole body.  
When you’re ready, wiggle your fingers  and toes. And let your eyes softly open.  
Enjoy the rest of your day, and  we’ll see you back here soon.

English (United States)







