Welcome to SoothingPod’s meditation.
In this meditation, we will be exploring  defensiveness as it presents itself in our own  
being. This is not defensiveness that arises when  we need to physically protect ourselves; rather,  
it is in relation to the defensiveness that comes  up when we feel misunderstood or criticized.
Note that this meditation will include  a visualization of past defensiveness,  
so if there is past trauma in relation to this  theme, another meditation may be better suited.
To begin this practice, take a moment  to find a comfortable seated position.
Relax your shoulders and straighten your  spine as you close your eyes to settle in. 
Draw your attention to the breath as you take a  few silent moments to arrive in this practice. 
Let the mind come to meet you where you  are by noticing the earth beneath you… 
… the air around you… …  
and any feelings or sensations  that are moving through you. 
Simply note what is here and then come  back to the breath to anchor yourself. 
Each breath brings us back  into the present moment,  
as long as we are fully attentive to its flow. 
If there are any thoughts or stories  continuing to loop through the mind,  
take a moment now to soften the forehead and  your eyebrows, easing this area of your being. 
It’s also helpful to remember,  as we move through this practice,  
that it is natural for the mind to wander.  Anytime you notice your attention has drifted,  
just gently bring it back to your breath,  to your body, or to the words spoken here. 
And now take just a few more moments to  mindfully anchor yourself through the breath  
before we begin our exploration of defensiveness.  
Liken the breath to steady waves coming  into and out of the shore of your body. 
Let’s now consider the words of Gary  Chapman. In his words, “Defensive  
behavior is a barrier to communication.” And it is true: When we go into defensive  
mode, we contract, which stifles the  possibility for meaningful connection. 
But what is defensiveness  really, and why does it arise? 
To better understand this tendency, we can  consider defensiveness as part of the body’s  
fight, flight, or freeze response. When we  perceive we are being threatened in some way,  
it is only natural that we  try to defend ourselves. 
When we are faced with imminent danger, this  response is helpful and even necessary. However,  
when we defend ourselves habitually against  other people’s views, needs, and expressions,  
we fuel the divide between us. 
We might consider that our defenses arise  largely due to our past conditioning,  
which explains why I might feel defensive about  
something entirely different to what  would cause the same reaction in you. 
The more aware we are of our own defensive  tendencies, the easier it becomes to soften  
this response where it is safe for us to  do so. And instead of this inner defense,  
we might cultivate greater compassion, curiosity,  and openness to the words and feelings of others. 
As we ease any tendency we have to be defensive,  our communication with others improves,  
our relationships get stronger, and  our capacity for growth flourishes. 
To practice this, take a moment  to come back into the body. 
Notice whatever is physically present for you now,  
and where possible, see if you might soften any  tightness or contraction you may be experiencing. 
Observe the breath that flows through you. Let  
each inhalation create more space  for compassionate exploration. 
Now, compassionately – and with curiosity  – consider a time when you reacted  
defensively to something that someone said. Without judging or defending yourself in  
your mind, simply note what it felt like  in the body to go into a defensive mode. 
And as you hold this scenario  in your mind without judgment,  
see if you might let the breath  flow a little bit deeper. 
Soften your jaw… your shoulders… or any  other area where tension may be present. 
Draw your attention to the heart space now,  and take a moment to cultivate a sense of  
self-love in the face of whatever  led to you to contract and defend. 
When we hold ourselves in unconditional self-love,  
we are less likely to react strongly in the  face of criticism or differences of opinion. 
Now, consider if, in the face of something that  makes you want to defend your inner world, it  
is possible to become a bit more curious – about  both your own reaction and the words of others. 
Consider if it might be  possible to hold differing views  
at the same time without resentment or judgment. 
Consider how harnessing compassion – for both  
oneself and others – might ease the  defensiveness that arises within. 
And now, continuing to hold your  attention on the heart space,  
take a few moments to repeat  the following words in silence: 
I love myself unconditionally. I am open to new perspectives. 
I am willing to learn and to grow. 
I am calm in the face of criticism. I communicate with curiosity and compassion. 
I love myself… unconditionally. 
Take a few final moments now  to let all words dissolve  
as you hold onto this sense of  self-love and compassion for others. 
Come back to your breath, minding the  ebb and flow into and out of the body. 
Ground yourself back into  the seat or floor beneath  
you… …  
and when you are ready, you may  slowly let your eyes flutter open. 
I hope you enjoyed today’s session. See you again.