Welcome to SoothingPod’s meditation.
In today’s meditation, we will be exploring  what it means to be creative, as well as how we  
can better express ourselves with courage. And,  what does it take to colour outside the lines?
Before we dive into this exploration,  take a moment to tune into this present  
moment by bringing yourself to  a comfortable seated position.
Gently elongate the spine, neck included,  
and then allow your arms to rise up  overhead for a momentary stretch…
… and then release them back down to rest  on the thighs, the knees, or in your lap.
Draw your attention now to the breath,  
mindfully watching the path it takes from the  outer world to the inner… and then back out again.
Notice your breaths current rhythm and depth  
as you begin to settle more comfortably into  this space. With every mindful breath we take,  
the racing mind softens and we become more  receptive to whatever is here right now.
Continuing to breathe mindfully,  expand your awareness to include  
any other sensations you might be experiencing.
Perhaps you notice a tingling sensation…  a tightness… a softening… or an expansion.
Whatever is the case for you right now, simply  witness each sensation without any judgment,  
inviting the breath deep into any areas  of tension if discomfort is present.
Inhale a sense of nourishment and inspiration…
… and exhale all tension, all fear, and  any discomfort that might be present.  
If you feel completely at  ease in this moment already,  
simply continue to watch the breath move  through you, cleansing you as it does so.
Take just a few more breaths in silence, releasing  any rising thoughts with each exhalation.
Creativity is often believed to be something  exclusive to people such as painters, poets,  
and playwrights. And while these people do  tend to embody a high degree of creativity,  
the essence of creativity is  something much broader than this.
Creativity is the use of imagination or  inventiveness to create something new and  
original, and by this definition, creativity is  something that all of us embody. Whether on paper  
or canvas, or in our homes and relationships,  creativity expresses itself in numerous ways.
In the words of writer Elizabeth Gilbert,  “If you’re alive, you’re a creative person.”
Creativity is required to navigate  complicated relationships,  
just as much as it’s needed to  compose a great piece of music.  
Of course these are very different examples of  the use of creativity, but at the core of them,  
they require the same things: courage, confidence,  and a willingness to step beyond the familiar.
To be creative, we need to be willing to make  mistakes – to be willing to colour outside of  
the lines. Through mistakes, we learn.  Through colouring beyond our boundaries,  
we discover we are capable of far  more than we had previously imagined.
So, take a moment now to return to your breath,  
silently inviting your innate capacity  for creativity to rise to the surface.
Now, silently repeat the words:
My imagination has no bounds.
I honour my unique expression of creativity.
I am willing to draw outside of the lines.
Continuing to breathe slowly and steadily,  with these affirmations lingering in mind,  
notice how it feels to honour the  creative energy within your being.
And, if the mind intervenes to  deny your embodiment of creativity,  
gently invite these self-limiting beliefs  into the heart for healing and release.
When it comes to creativity, it is not possible to  compare ourselves to any standards we might hold.  
Our creative energy and potential is  unique to who we are as individuals.
Take another deep breath in, all  the way to the base of the belly… 
And as you exhale, release any fears,  
any limitations, or any standards you might  hold for yourself in relation to creativity.
Gently allow the heart space to  open wider on your next inhalation,  
inviting your courage and confidence  to rise alongside your creativity.
Take just a few more slow and steady breaths now,  silently honouring your unique creative potential.
Observe the natural ebb and flow of one more  
breath…
… and then shift your attention back  to your physical presence in this room.
When you are ready, gently open your eyes. 
I hope you enjoyed today’s  meditation. See you again.

English (United States)







