Learn New Skills | Guided Meditation To Learn Faster A New Skill
Learning something new represents a challenge as we know we will be forced to leave our
comfort zone.
Sometimes we pass on learning something new because we fear we couldn't “get it right”;
it’s just too hard or will take too much time.
However, there are times when learning something new is easy and exciting in the beginning,
but as we dive deeper into the skill, frustrations may emerge.
The frustration barrier doesn’t just make learning more difficult; it is also demotivating.
When you face the barrier repeatedly, you may start to believe that you are not born
with the talents necessary to succeed in the particular skill you are trying to learn.
Whether it be learning how to code, drawing, play a new sport or business, there’s no
skill that you can’t acquire.
In this meditation, we will grow your mental capacity to learn faster, memorize more, and
keep yourself motivated.
It is recommended to do this meditation every time before practice your new desired skill
to maximize your learning potential.
Let's begin Find a quiet place where you can lay down
or sit in a comfortable position without being disturbed.
Allow your eyelids to close over your eyes softly.
Slowly take a deep breath in...hold for a moment and slowly let the breath all the way
out.
Take a few more deep breaths.
Gently all the way in - pause and slowly, all the way out.
On every exhale, your body relaxes more and more.
As you focus on my voice, your mind calms down and opens to the positive suggestions
of becoming very good at a desired new skill.
Now, I would like you to call to mind a skill you already have and are good at.
It can be driving a car or a bicycle.
Maybe, cooking, work, or business-related.
Anything that comes to your mind.
In your mind's eye, visualize yourself practicing this skill.
Take a few moments to enjoy it.
How does it feel doing something that you are good at?
Remember the time when you learned that skill.
When was it?
How did you learn it?
Was it easy or hard?
Take notes on how you feel knowing that you pass a long way to learn that skill, and you
are here, now enjoying it.
Proud of it.
Now, I would like you to call to mind the skill you want to develop.
It could be one that you find particularly challenging.
It could be a skill that you have been trying to acquire for some time.
Take a moment and visualize yourself practicing this skill.
Zoom-in on the details.
What do you feel?
If you sense any frustration or anxiety emerging, take a deep inhale, and as you exhale, let
it go.
Now, I would like you to find a connection between your desired skill and the one you
already acquire.
The connection does not have to be a direct one.
Take a moment to find a connection, small or big.
As your mind bridges the gap between the two skills, visualize yourself practicing the
new desired skill with the same confidence and pleasure you practice the skill you already
possess.
See yourself improving and getting better and better.
It’s becoming too easy.
This skill cannot be taken away.
This skill is a part of you.
Notice all there is to notice, from your breath to your posture and how you feel.
Allow yourself to relish in this moment of victory.
You may sense the corners of your mouth curl up into a smile.
You may even jump up in celebration in your mind's eye.
And as you celebrate getting good at your new skill, repeat the following affirmation
in your mind.
My brain can easily contain a lot of information.
I can learn anything I choose to.
I’m finding learning new things easy and fun.
I believe in myself and my abilities.
I have a great memory.
My desire to learn new things increases daily.
I am always motivated to learn new things.
I am a naturally smart and intelligent person.
I have full confidence in my learning abilities.
Let yourself feel a sense of fulfillment.
Take a moment to thank yourself for showing up to your practice and taking the time to
develop a skill that you truly desire.
Stay in this sense of gratitude for a few more moments, the gratitude for learning a
new skill, your ability, and your mindset.
When you are ready, slowly come back to your physical body.
Wiggle the fingers and toes.
At your own pace, open the eyes.
If you've enjoyed this guided meditation, subscribe to our channel and
download the Enhanced app for exclusive guided meditations, visualizations, and more.
Find the download link in the description below.
Make sure to leave a like and comment; it helps with the Youtube algorithm and supports
the channel.
Thank you for listening, and we will see you at the next session.

English






